# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 21 December 2024**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin needs to log into the FPA Gmail account and then to the screenapp.io account to record
2. **Re-branding this meeting (sliptonic)**
   - The bi-weekly developer meetings are generally informational.  There's no formal decision making part of the agenda
   - There is currently no formal meeting of 'Maintainers'.  It is Maintainers who are responsible for decision making about the direction of the FreeCAD source.
   - PROPOSAL:
     - Make this a bi-weekly 'Maintainers Meeting'
     - Keep it open to all participants and especially encourage formal maintainers to attend
     - Add formal decision topics to the agenda.
       - What is the next release date?  (feature freeze, string freeze, etc)
3. **Keeping compatibility with addons after 1.0 (kadet)**
   - What we consider as public API? What we consider as private API? Public API should be really carefuly defined.
   - https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/blob/main/src/Gui/ViewProviderLink.cpp#L2777-L2780 - this is an example of feature that is in core basically only for Assembly 3
   - Stuff like this makes it really hard to refactor code
4. **Adding QDebug operator<<(QDebug, ...) for Base classes (kadet)**
   - it makes debugging much easier
   - not sure where would be a good place for it, core GUI?
5. **Analysis of FreeCAD Internet Properties(reqrefusion)**
   - FreeCAD has many places on the web, and seeing what is going on in them provides many benefits both for improving them and for getting to know the user base. Because proportionally the number of silent users is always 100 times that of engaged users.
   - Search Consoles: These are services that provide searches to the site in search engines. They do not offer any tracking within the site. Just confirming the ownership of the site is sufficient. There is no tracking code or tracking. The most well-known is of course Google Search Console, but there are other search engines as well.
   - Analysis tools: Before moving on to this, it is worth mentioning that interactions with the site are logged by the server. However, it is necessary to use analysis tools to analyze these and more. There are many 3rd party and open source tools for this.
       - Google analytics: An industry standard that would be incomplete if we did not mention its name. Of course, it has many shortcomings.
       - Yandex Metrica: I think the biggest advantage of the heat maps service is that it is free. Other than that, it's a pretty adequate tool.
       - Matomo: The most popular open source solution. Fully compatible with PHP and MySQL and the existing server system. We can host it completely ourselves and the setup is quite simple. Since it analyzes without cookies, it is very secure regarding personal data. Even the European commission uses this tool. It is quite up to date and has many add-ons. Unfortunately the add-on for heatmaps costs 219 euros per year. It is also GDPR compliant, meaning it is legal throughout the European Union. Analyzes can also be seen by everyone. All data is collected completely anonymously on our own server. It does not require any cookies, which means no personal data is collected.

6. **CAD Working Group topics** (pierreporte, will not attend, just FYI)
   - New file format:
     + A github discussion has been created: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/discussions/18532
     + The original comment describes the current state of the “feature” as we see it at the moment.
     + Recommended file formats have been listed, with drafted specific behavior.
     + Comments welcome. Waiting for wmayer’s opinion.
   - Cosmetic threads:
     + A feature specification has been written on the issue: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/5567#issuecomment-2543142577
     + Everything is described in detailed, though the person implementing it would need to communicate early with CWD.
     + All relevent standards are listed. They would be needed to implement the feature as desired.
     + tapered threads are listed, but the first version of the feature could provide only parallel if needed.
     + The new Hole tool still needs work.
   - I can propose to work on something new on the next meeting I’m attending (likely 5th January).
   - During the Christmas holidays, I’ll start making an existing design of mine into FreeCAD 1.0 to trully evaluate it (it’s an [orrery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orrery)). It has been my goal to do it in 1.0 when it would be released.
7. We've caught up with our day, if PRs are no longer considered stale. Have the Friday meetings completed their mission?(reqrefusion)
8. **Finding consensus on exposing properties (pieterhijma)**
   - See [this forum post](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?p=796706#p796706) that presents some implementation options.
   - What is a good way to decide on this?
   - This could be seen as a use-case of point 2 in the list.
9. **Discussion on C++ API documentation (pieterhijma)**
   - See [this forum topic](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=92919)
   - It's just a handful of developers that shared an opinion.  I'm interested in more opinions on improving the C++ API documentation.
10. **Moving Ondsel repositories to the FreeCAD organization (pieterhijma, sliptonic)**
   - The Ondsel server has been released as open source and the FPA has
     received funding to continue the development for the field of Open Source
     Hardware.
   - I propose the following:
     - fork `Ondsel/Ondsel-Server` to `FreeCAD/lens-server`
     - fork `Ondsel/Ondsel-Lens-Addon` to `FreeCAD/lens-addon`
     - fork `Ondsel/FC-worker` to `FreeCAD/fc-worker`
11. **Discussion on Developer Experience Improvements (oursland's 2025 goals)**
   - Documentation on Cross-Platform Build System with Pixi
      - Current task
   - Application Packaging
      - I'm working on integrating building of Linux AppImage, macOS .dmg, and Windows .exe packages into pixi
   - Continuous Integration Improvements
      - [Automated Performance Metrics](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/discussions/13722)
   - AI Assisted Code Review with Suggestions
      - [Refactor Raptor](https://www.openpr.com/news/3539896/jethead-development-unveils-refactor-raptor-next-gen-ai)
   - Crash Reporting
      - Google [`breakpad`](https://github.com/google/breakpad) / Chromium [`crashpad`](https://github.com/chromium/crashpad)
   - Exception Handling
      - Integration of [`cpptrace`](https://github.com/jeremy-rifkin/cpptrace)
      - Enabling backtrace on debug builds for all `try`/`catch`
   - System Profiling
      - Linux perf
      - macOS Xcode Instruments
