Agendas/agenda-2025-04-06.md, before:

# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 6 April 2025**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **API Stability/Maturity per module** (kadet)
   - Some parts of FreeCAD are more stable than others
   - For new modules it is very hard to come up with good API without seeing it in the wild
   - Other software suites (like kubernetes) specify API maturity per module, for example Deployments can be stable while Gateway API is not
   - This would make easier to merge changes with non-perfect API as we will be able to change API in the future
  
3. **Google Summer of Code** (chennes)
   - Introductions from any GSoC attendees
  
4. **Telemetry Help Wanted** (chennes)
   - Need web help for displaying the results to the public

5. **Setting dates for App, Gui, Part, and PartDesign reformat** (chennes)
   - These formatting changes are going to be BIG
   - PR authors will want to manually run pre-commit before trying to rebase
   - Want to give plenty of advance notice

Commit message:

Add point about new FEP process to 2025-04-06 agenda

Agendas/agenda-2025-04-06.md, after:

# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 6 April 2025**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **The new FreeCAD Enhancement Proposals - RFC Process for FreeCAD** (kadet)
   - We struggle with making hard and well informed decisions, so we need some process to help us
   - The need for the process was already discussed: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-developer-meetings/blob/main/Minutes/minutes-2024-12-21.md
   - Proposal for how the process could look: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals/pull/12

3. **API Stability/Maturity per module** (kadet)
   - Some parts of FreeCAD are more stable than others
   - For new modules it is very hard to come up with good API without seeing it in the wild
   - Other software suites (like kubernetes) specify API maturity per module, for example Deployments can be stable while Gateway API is not
   - This would make easier to merge changes with non-perfect API as we will be able to change API in the future
   - Good candidate for FEP!
  
4. **Google Summer of Code** (chennes)
   - Introductions from any GSoC attendees
  
5. **Telemetry Help Wanted** (chennes)
   - Need web help for displaying the results to the public

6. **Setting dates for App, Gui, Part, and PartDesign reformat** (chennes)
   - These formatting changes are going to be BIG
   - PR authors will want to manually run pre-commit before trying to rebase
   - Want to give plenty of advance notice
