# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 17 May 2025 1530h UTC**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **Next release** (chennes)
   - Time to start talking about where to draw the line for 1.1

3. **Proposal for larger feature merge process** (chennes/davesrocketshop)
   - Continued discussion from last meeting
   - FreeCAD Enhancement Proposal process going forward
   - PRs: to split or not to split?
   - Code review level-of-detail concerns

4. **FEP Decision Process** (pieterhijma/kadet1090)
   - Kadet1090 updated the [Decision Process](https://github.com/kadet1090/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals/blob/master/FEPs/FEP-0001-process.md#decision-process) after discussion with the maintainers.
   - The decision process is now described more abstractly with the following potential issues:
	 - "consensus" is now determined at the discretion of the maintainers
	 - Unclear to the community what consensus means, does it mean:
	   - majority?
	   - 100% consensus among all developers / participating developers?
	   - different consensus "levels" for different FEPs, for example based on the degree of touching core code?

5. **OCCT Liaison update** (pieterhijma)
   - The [OCCT Liaison Project](https://github.com/orgs/FreeCAD/projects/32/views/1) is becoming an extensive list.
   - In general lots of work to even understand if it is OCCT related.
   - Any ideas from the developers?
   
6. **Honorarium for Maintainers** (fpa)
	- A recent FPA meeting discussed the possibility of providing a small honorarium to maintainers in recognition of their contribution.
	- FPA felt this should be discussed with the maintainers and potential maintainers.
	- discuss!

