# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 19 April 2025**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **Drawing module, keep or remove** (hyarion)
   - Drawing mod has been kept for backwards compatibility. Is this something we want to continue with or should we remove it as proposed by mosfet?
   - during merge meeting it was decided to discuss it here instead

3. **OndselSolver vendor and update** (oursland)
   - defer discussion on submodules until next item
   - Assembly WB is tightly coupled with OndselSolver
   - Since the unfortunate demise of Ondsel, OndselSolver has become archived and unmaintained
   - Vendoring OndselSolver into the Assembly WB would permit maintaining through the normal FreeCAD process

4. **Submodule Discussion** (oursland)
   - Submodules are a mechanism for bringing in external source code inspired by [Subversion Externals](https://svnbook.red-bean.com/en/1.7/svn.advanced.externals.html)
   - Unlike svn:externals, git submodules are hosted outside of the current repo and referred by git reference (typically a SHA)
      - Using Linus Torvalds' original vision of git as a filesystem (index = inode, objects = blocks), a git submodules is a hard link to an external filesystem, which is usually prohibited
   - git was designed for managing line-oriented source, not SHAs and cannot effectively automate merging of submodule changes
   - Consequently, any change, no matter how small, in the submodule will lead to a conflict even if the changes are compatible
   - Presentation: [Submodule Pain](https://github.com/oursland/submodule-pain/blob/master/Submodule%20Pain.pdf)

5. **Weekly Build Status** (oursland)
   - Give status on current state
   - Integration efforts
      - Upstream Issue requesting more fine-grained support for CMake configuration in pixi-build [prefix-dev/pixi-build-backends#127](https://github.com/prefix-dev/pixi-build-backends/issues/127)

6. **PartDesign / Part Interaction** (Pieter Hijma)
   - [#20735](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/20735) highlights an issue that should be resolved in my opinion.
   - Probably not easy to solve
   - It would be good to at least define a policy: What do we want with this problem?
7. **Google Summer of Code** 
   - Introductions from any GSoC attendees
