Agendas/agenda-2026-02-21.md, before:

# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 21 February 2026 16:30h UTC**

Meeting link: https://meet.jit.si/FreeCAD-devs-meeting

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **Giving credit to AstoCAD** - chennes
   - @PaddleStroke has an important [new feature PR](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/22217) to add text objects to Sketcher
   - He has proposed making the default inserted text "AstoCAD" during the development process, to be changed before the next release
       - He would like to promote his AstoCAD soft-fork, which needs additional exposure to make successful
   - Other ideas include:
       - Making a splashscreen about the new feature that thanks AstoCAD
       - Making a splashscreen about AstoCAD itself
       - Including AstoCAD in the program credits
       - Mentioning AstoCAD and using its name as the text presenting this feature in the release notes and on the blog

3. **Gaël Écorchard (galou, galou_breizh) as maintainer of the Robot Workbench**
   - Gaël proposes himself.
   - There's not much going up right now but Gaël'd like to make more changes as he finds some time.
   - Gaël doesn't think there's any maintainer of this workbench right now.
  
4. **Add Warning dialog when saving out a v1.0.x file from a v1.1/v1.2** - Connor
   - With topo changes a file can become incompatable with v1.0.x
   - CAM has introduced new features that can break older files when saved from v1.2/v1.2 (Toolbits, changes to opeartions etc)

Commit message:

Adding AI Feature policy to agenda (#42)
* Added agenda item and details for MabeeSteve (me) regarding policy on AI features.

* Fixed indentation spaces that were changed by the IDE

---------

Co-authored-by: nv-steve <steve@netvaluetech.com>

Agendas/agenda-2026-02-21.md, after:

# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 21 February 2026 16:30h UTC**

Meeting link: https://meet.jit.si/FreeCAD-devs-meeting

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **Giving credit to AstoCAD** - chennes
   - @PaddleStroke has an important [new feature PR](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/22217) to add text objects to Sketcher
   - He has proposed making the default inserted text "AstoCAD" during the development process, to be changed before the next release
      - He would like to promote his AstoCAD soft-fork, which needs additional exposure to make successful
   - Other ideas include:
      - Making a splashscreen about the new feature that thanks AstoCAD
      - Making a splashscreen about AstoCAD itself
      - Including AstoCAD in the program credits
      - Mentioning AstoCAD and using its name as the text presenting this feature in the release notes and on the blog

3. **Gaël Écorchard (galou, galou_breizh) as maintainer of the Robot Workbench**
   - Gaël proposes himself.
   - There's not much going up right now but Gaël'd like to make more changes as he finds some time.
   - Gaël doesn't think there's any maintainer of this workbench right now.

4. **Add Warning dialog when saving out a v1.0.x file from a v1.1/v1.2** - Connor
   - With topo changes a file can become incompatable with v1.0.x
   - CAM has introduced new features that can break older files when saved from v1.2/v1.2 (Toolbits, changes to opeartions etc)

5. **Guidelines (requirement?) that AI features can be completely disabled and avoided by Users** - MabeeSteve
   - Related to brief [Discord discussion with hyarion (nauck)](https://discord.com/channels/870877411049357352/1099444468895199232/1471915084426252321)
   - Addition and inclusion of "AI" features in established software is a sensitive matter that warrants careful, deliberate handling to avoid tension and user issues
   - Can't stop AI, it's going to happen, but we can manage it to mitigate disruption and user discontent
   - Initial thoughts:
      1. Develop a policy using the FEP process
      2. Policy would apply to core features and add-ons
      3. All AI features (including any UI widgets) can be disabled fully via application preferences
      4. Any AI feature that sends data to external services would be explicitly opt-in
      5. All AI features would be disabled by default (don't make users play whack-a-mole)
      6. MabeeSteve is willing to write the FEP
