# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 16 May 2026 15:30h UTC**

Meeting link: https://meet.jit.si/FreeCAD-devs-meeting (note that this is probably going to be the lsat jit.si-hosted meeting, as we will migrate to Big Blue Button for future meetings)

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **Qt5 support** (pieterhijma)
   - We still get PRs for fixing Qt5, for example [#29395](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/29395)
   - Should we now finally drop it?

3. **AI policy proposal** (pieterhijma)
   - In the last meeting, I proposed to write up a concrete new AI policy.
   - [Reqrefuison's No-AI Policy](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14pjWnjaMWP3ukmx8YgBUAIXUjZaDFDh6QBFwXiHFAo8/edit?usp=sharing)
      - You may notice that the policy here contradicts the existing policy I have written. The current policy was written based on modern law. According to this, rules exist to maintain social order, not ethical values. This may seem bad from the outside, but the reason for this is that everyone has different ethical values. Adopting one value means excluding another.
      - I still find the current policy more logical, but I acknowledge that the current AI carries a certain evil. I have studied this situation with modern theory, and I explain it in this policy. It is based on two concepts: "The Commodification of Creativity" and "Alienation from Genius." I have tried to explain this as much as possible in the text, and as a result, I have arrived at the agenda items of the proposed No-AI policy.

4. **Dependency policy** (hyarion)
   - Historically we've supported the oldest Ubuntu LTS available to make it easy for users to get started with modifying FreeCAD.
   - Right now there are three Ubuntu LTS available (22.04, 24.04, 26.04) and we use 24.04 as reference to get new enough Qt.
   - We've started to bundle a lot of dependencies to allow older LTS releases
   - With the advent of pixi we've greatly simplified the building process for new users, do we really need to support old LTS versions anymore?
   - Is there a way that we can use ~~latest~~ recent, unmodfied, versions of core dependencies, like occt, coin, (clipper?) without having to vendor them?
     
5. **Maintenance of non-core repositoryies** (sliptonic not-present)
   - we have a large number of repositories beyond the core FreeCAD source (73)
   - We have reasonably good processes for addressing PRs in source but not the other repos.
   - Maintenance will likely be on a per-repo basis.
   - PRs in these other repos are not getting addressed
   - Some of the repos contain resources where review is not a source-related issue.  For example, addon repos that provide assets (Machines, Supplemental-Materials). We need domain experts to participte.
  
5. **FEP-0001 - Require presentation on Developer Meeting** (kadet1090)
   - The move from Draft to Proposed is not clear
   - It's hard to kick-off the discussion
   - What de facto is done right now and works is to present the FEP at the developers meeting
   - Amendment adds it as actual requitement to move from Draft to Proposed.

5. **FEP-0003 - FreeCAD Release Schedule and Process** (kadet1090)
   - Removed the LTS release, kept the quality focus for one of normal ones, but without special release name
   - Added CalVer based versioning scheme: 26.1 (this will be quality focused one), 26.2, 26.3
   - We will start the process with 30 September branch with announcement right after it gets accepted
   - Proper blockers definition, more automation are future scope - we will get stuck in endless discusion and we need better process for releases now
