# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 02 March 2025**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording

2. **CAD Working Group** (pierreporte)
   - An official PDM for FreeCAD?

3. **Coin3D is holding us back** (oursland)
   - Recent profiling of major slowdowns and hangs have both been traced to inefficiencies in Coin3D's scenegraph.
   - Current project to replace the renderer will not improve matters.
   - Options:
      - Fix Coin3D
      - Replace Coin3D
         - Other SceneGraph library: e.g. OpenSceneGraph or VulkanSceneGraph
         - Alternative system such as Godot game engine
   - First steps regardless:
      - Vendor Coin3D
      - Fix immediate issues, even if hack

4. **Repository Naming** (PhoneDroid)
   - New repositories in the `FreeCAD` organization shouldn't be prefixed with `FreeCAD-`.
   - Muddling FreeCAD repository names for the convenience of people that fork them is not justified.
   - People that fork repositories:
      - Are given the option to rename the fork
      - Can rename their fork post fork without issue
   - Renaming existing FreeCAD repositories is difficult so names should be proper to begin with.

5. **Migration of Weekly Builds to Qt6** (oursland)
   - CI builds are currently against Qt6, but the weekly builds are against Qt5
   - Migration to Qt6 will reveal some issues that are not present in Qt5
   - Users of the weekly builds will experience some regressions, and without archives will not be able to roll back

6. **Archival of Weekly Builds** (oursland)
   - Weekly builds occur on a single GitHub Release.  As new artifacts are uploaded, the previous artifacts are rendered inaccessible.
   - This makes comparison between weekly builds challenging to impossible.
   - In the case of a serious regression, it makes rolling back to the previous weekly impossible.
   - Propose migration to frequent "Pre-Release" releases for each weekly build instead of the single rolling release.

7. **Variant Parts Presentation** (Pieter Hijma)
   - Present the functionality of the Variant Parts
   - Present the current implementation
   - Discuss various implementation options
   - Discuss a way forward

8. **How to handle permissions on the new ex-Ondsel repos?** (yorik)
   - Topic postponed from last meeting
   - Proposal: Give ex-ondsel crew (basically amritpal and pieter) merge access to the ondsel repos for now, so the maintenance of these repo stays assured. Elaborate a policy for later.

9. **Meeting time reminder/clarification** (chennes)
   - Next meeting is Saturday, 15 March 2025
   - Time is the same as usual for Europeans, but an hour later for North Americans (daylight saving time/summer time starts earlier in Europe)
