# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 14 September 2024**

1. **Volunteer to take minutes**
2. **1.0 release status**
3. **(sliptonic) Need for a common assets location**

    There is a category of improvements to FreeCAD that should be deliverable via addons. These include but aren't limited to:
    - CAM post-processors and Tools
    - Better materials
    - TechDraw templates
    
    In the future, we could anticipate other kinds of assets like:
    - CAM vises, tool holders, clamps to make setup easier.
    - Stock configs for raytracing 
    - Robot definitions and CNC machines for simulation

    Currently, addons can only install into the `MOD` directory or the user macro directory. FreeCAD should have a dedicated assets location where addons can install resources that other workbenches and addons can use. For example:
    - TechDraw should look in `assets/Techdraw` for templates
    - CAM should look in `assets/CAM`, etc.
  
    - **chennes**: I cannot attend this meeting, so am leaving a few notes here
        - To prevent name collisions, etc. the new Addon type should still install into dedicated per-addon folders, e.g. `assets/CAM/BradsGreatToolCollection/`
        - Addons are currently allowed to provide multiple WBs, Preference Packs, etc. in subfolders -- how would this work with Assets?
        - What metadata should assets provide in addition to the [current metadata standard](https://wiki.freecad.org/Package_Metadata) (if any changes are needed)?
4. **(reqrefusion) Improving the current documentation provider**

    The mediawiki infrastructure that provides the current documentation is the most powerful software in its field, no matter how much it is wanted to be changed, and changing it does not make sense. However, it is not fully used in its current state. Even most of the basic features are not used. It would be the right move to act in this direction and make various improvements.

5. **(pierreporte) CWG / CAD advisory group**

6. **(chennes) REMINDER: check your Draft 1.0-milestone PRs**

If you have PRs marked as Draft but also marked for the 1.0 milestone, please either wrap them up so they can be reviewed, or ask that they be shifted to Post-1.0.
