Agendas/agenda-2025-09-07.md, before:

# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 7 September 2025 1530h UTC**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **Packaging and distribution formats for Linux** @mnesarco
   - Flatpak and AppImage are well know and battle tested distribution formats for Linux similar to the App Image used in Mac. Windows distribution is a different thing.
   - Currently we maintain compatibility with older versions of libraries just because freeecad can be
installed from distro system repos (rpm, deb, etc..) which have to link with outdated library versions.
   - If we distribute FreeCAD for Linux using only Flatpak and AppImage we can use latest versions of
almost everything.
   - This does not affect the "Build from source" option,
currently the recommended way of "build from source" is pixi which also does not use system versions of libs.
   - OCCT is experimenting a new breath of changes and improvements and probably we want to use them.
   - Qt5 is EOL now.
   - C++20 allows us to do cleaner and safer code and c++23 is coming, we can get all those benefits.

3. **FEP-0008: Project Group Structure** @kadet1090
   - Continuation of discussion from [Sunday, 03 August 2025 developer meeting](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-developer-meetings/blob/main/Minutes/minutes-2025-08-03.md)

4. **Moving OpenSCAD importer out of core** @chennes
   - OpenSCAD importer is pure Python
   - Viable, maintained alternative available at: https://github.com/KeithSloan/OpenSCAD_Alt_Import
   - Proposal:
       - fork OpenSCAD_Alt_Import to FreeCAD/OpenSCAD_Importer
       - make @KeithSloan the Maintainer
       - Remove current code from core
       - Replace with a submodule or subtree so it still ships with FreeCAD
       - Internal version can be overridden by updates from the Addon Manager
       - Make Addon Manager "aware" of overridable internal versions

Commit message:

Add agenda item Open Footwear

Agendas/agenda-2025-09-07.md, after:

# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 7 September 2025 1530h UTC**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **Open Footwear** @pieterhijma
   - Introduction to [Open Footwear](https://www.openfootwear.com) by Juraj Šuška
	 - Vision is to have an Footwear/Open Footwear addon in FreeCAD
   - Contact from [FAB 25](https://fab25.fabevent.org/) where I and @chennes participated in a workshop

3. **Packaging and distribution formats for Linux** @mnesarco
   - Flatpak and AppImage are well know and battle tested distribution formats for Linux similar to the App Image used in Mac. Windows distribution is a different thing.
   - Currently we maintain compatibility with older versions of libraries just because freeecad can be
installed from distro system repos (rpm, deb, etc..) which have to link with outdated library versions.
   - If we distribute FreeCAD for Linux using only Flatpak and AppImage we can use latest versions of
almost everything.
   - This does not affect the "Build from source" option,
currently the recommended way of "build from source" is pixi which also does not use system versions of libs.
   - OCCT is experimenting a new breath of changes and improvements and probably we want to use them.
   - Qt5 is EOL now.
   - C++20 allows us to do cleaner and safer code and c++23 is coming, we can get all those benefits.

4. **FEP-0008: Project Group Structure** @kadet1090
   - Continuation of discussion from [Sunday, 03 August 2025 developer meeting](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-developer-meetings/blob/main/Minutes/minutes-2025-08-03.md)

5. **Moving OpenSCAD importer out of core** @chennes
   - OpenSCAD importer is pure Python
   - Viable, maintained alternative available at: https://github.com/KeithSloan/OpenSCAD_Alt_Import
   - Proposal:
       - fork OpenSCAD_Alt_Import to FreeCAD/OpenSCAD_Importer
       - make @KeithSloan the Maintainer
       - Remove current code from core
       - Replace with a submodule or subtree so it still ships with FreeCAD
       - Internal version can be overridden by updates from the Addon Manager
       - Make Addon Manager "aware" of overridable internal versions
