# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 19 October 2024**

1. **Volunteer to take minutes**
2. V1.0 release process and blocker bounties. (sliptonic)
   - FPA is voting to approve budget to place a bounty on outstanding blocker issues.
   - Need this meeting to review outstanding blockers. Determine which ones are _real_ blockers to release.
   - Need this meeting to set rules for claiming a bounty
   - 
3. **DISCUSS: File structure** (CAD Working Group / pierreporte)
   - Reusing FCStd is possible with added attribute group
   - File type is a string parameter in Document.xml and FreeCAD would work differently depending on that
   - Generic FCStd is still desirable but should be advertised as playground or sandbox
   - Solve [issue #12708](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/12708)
   - What about BIM? No BIM users in the Discord discussion currently
4. **DISCUSS**: Fix boolean operations PR. (AIRCAP/CorvusCorax) [PR #17119](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/17119/)
   - The PR is quite big as a small fix has been needed in a lot of places (the linter doesnt help either
   - Can anything be done to get this into 1.0? This pr fixes a lot of bugs.
5. **DISCUSS**: Safe Mode (hyarion)
   - info what is safe mode and why is it important.
   - discussion how fast can we get it merged to help bug triage?
6. **DISCUSS**: Regressions (NewJoker)
   - crashes were investigated recently but many users complain about regressions and want to keep using 0.21.2 because of them
   - check the [regressions list](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/labels/Type%3A%20Regression) and make some of them Blockers?
   - frequent complaints about the lack of support for Windows 7 and older 3DConnexion devices
   - more common sketch issues - over/underconstraint, open wire, solver failed to converge
7. **DISCUSS**: Are some changes to the default display/UI settings still possible? (NewJoker)
   - [poor visibility of sketcher geometries](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/13318) - thicker lines and yellow dimensions by default?
   - TabBar enabled by default?
   - grid in the Sketcher enabled by default?
