Agendas/agenda-2025-11-02.md, before:

# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 02 November 2025 1530h UTC**

1. **Python bindings**
   - Review
     - Mixture of CPython API and PyCXX
	 - Lots of mismatches between pyi files and c++ files.
	 - Inconsistent module structure between compile time and runtime
	 - Duplicated code in many places
	 - Incomplete pyi files (no constructors, no module level functions, missing
	   signatures, missing overloads)
   	 - Error prone due to manual parsing
	 - Manual process (signature declaration and parsing)
	 - Strange modules creation/initialization
	 - Raw pointer and memory management
	 - Possible memory leaks (some already reported reported)
	 - *pyi files are the initial source of truth,
	   but c++ implementation code may not honour the declared things.
	 - Hard to read/maintain
   - Proposal 1:
     - Modernize with nanobind (successor of pybind11) (https://nanobind.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)
	 - No Manual process/redeclaraions
	 - C++ centric. Bindings and stubs generated from c++ normal code
	 - No manual memory management / no raw pointers
	 - Automatic memory leak detection
	 - Fast compile time (faster than pybind11)
	 - Easy to read/maintain
	 - Modern C++17 code
	 - Candidate for a FEP?
   - Proposal 2:
     - Incremental modernization with a custom made helper for
	   static argument parsing and overload resolution:
	   https://github.com/mnesarco/marzpyb
     - Can be used/intermixed with current bindings
	 - Adds static type checking and overload resolution
	 - Supports PyCXX type for memory management and smart pointers.
	 - Support native types and CPython types also.
	 - Still in development but if nanobind is viable, then this
	   will be dropped in favor of nanobind.

Commit message:

[Agenda 2025-11-02] Python bindings item updates

Agendas/agenda-2025-11-02.md, after:

# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 02 November 2025 1530h UTC**

1. **Python bindings**
   - Review (current)
     - Mixture of raw CPython API, PyCXX, python generator and pybind11
	 - Lots of mismatches between pyi files and c++ files.
	 - Inconsistent module structure between compile time and runtime
	 - Duplicated code in many places
	 - Incomplete pyi files (no constructors, no module level functions, missing
	   signatures, missing overloads)
   	 - Error prone due to manual parsing
	 - Manual process (signature declaration and parsing)
	 - Strange modules creation/initialization
	 - Raw pointer and memory management
	 - Possible memory leaks (some already reported reported)
	 - *pyi files are the initial source of truth,
	   but c++ implementation code may not honour the declared things.
	 - Hard to read/maintain
   - Proposal 1:
     - Modernize with nanobind (successor of pybind11) (https://nanobind.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)
	 - No Manual process/redeclarations (more or less)
	 - C++ centric. Bindings and stubs generated from c++ normal code
	 - No manual memory management / no raw pointers
	 - Automatic memory leak detection
	 - Fast compile time (faster than pybind11)
	 - Easy to read/maintain
	 - Modern C++17 code
	 - Candidate for a FEP?
   - Proposal 2:
     - Incremental modernization with a custom made helper for
	   static argument parsing and overload resolution:
	   https://github.com/mnesarco/marzpyb
     - Can be used/intermixed with current bindings
	 - Adds static type checking and overload resolution
	 - Supports PyCXX type for memory management and smart pointers.
	 - Support native types and CPython types also.
	 - Still in development but if nanobind is viable, then this
	   will be dropped in favor of nanobind.
   - Proposal 3:
     - Create FreeCAD Python API 2.0
	 - Fully designed to match python best practices, naming and packaging
	 - New bindings library (new cmake target)
	 - Coexist with legacy API (Can be used intermixed to easy transition)
	 - 75% Declarative and autogenerated from C++ Sources
	 - Use Shiboken6 or nanobind+generator
	 - Documented with sphynx/doxygen/mkdocs... (Not the wiki)
