# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 7 December 2025 16:30h UTC**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **"Adopted" Addon policies** (chennes)
   - The FPA is now sponsoring an Addon Ecosystem Coordinator position
   - One task is to "adopt" unmaintained addons
   - What needs to be retained to ensure good community relations?
     - Repo name?
     - Addon name?
     - Author credit?
   - We don't want to give the impression we are "hijacking" someone else's work  

3. **[FEP-0010: Variant Parts](https://github.com/pieterhijma/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals/blob/variant-parts/FEPs/FEP-0010-variant-parts/README.md) accepted** (pieterhijma)
   - No concerns raised in the discussion period
   - One small "nice-to-have" comment -> turns out to work out-of-the-box
   - Will start implementation work now

4. **Would like to see more focus on adding tests** (pieterhijma)
   - Increase robustness of software
   - Examples that would have benefitted from more thorough tests:
	 - (auto) refine, for example [#25821](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/25821)
	 - fuzzy value of booleans, for example [#25146](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/25146)
   - Perhaps a technique as [QuickCheck](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QuickCheck) is worth considering.

5. **OCCT Liaison topic** (pieterhijma)
   - Do we want more effort into reporting bugs?
	 - Report as much as possible to OCCT and wait for upstream to fix
	 - I'm in favor of this
   - Do we want more effort into preventing OCCT issues?
	 - Add workarounds to FreeCAD
	 - Helps to prevent data loss
	 - Can mask issues that should be fixed

6. **Auto-closing GitHub issues is frustrating our users** (Roy)
   - Every 2 months GitHub issues have to be re-confirmed else they are auto-closed. This is a burden for users who have already gone through the trouble of creating the issue. We need a better solution.

7. **Thoughts on the long feature freeze? What is going wong?** (Roy)
   - We do not seem to be able to get a release out the door in a timely fashion. What is going wrong? Note that IMO there should be more blockers. 84 regressions listed in the tracker are not marked as blockers, some of them definitely should be.
