# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 16 August 2025 1530h UTC**

1. **Packaging and distribution formats for Linux** @mnesarco
- Flatpak and AppImage are well know and battle tested distribution formats for Linux similar to the App Image used in Mac. Windows distribution is a different thing.
- Currently we maintain compatibility with older versions of libraries just because freeecad can be
installed from distro system repos (rpm, deb, etc..) which have to link with outdated library versions.
- If we distribute FreeCAD for Linux using only Flatpak and AppImage we can use latest versions of
almost everything.
- This does not affect the "Build from source" option,
currently the recommended way of "build from source" is pixi which also does not use system versions of libs.
- OCCT is experimenting a new breath of changes and improvements and probably we want to use them.
- Qt5 is EOL now.
- C++20 allows us to do cleaner and safer code and c++23 is coming, we can get all those benefits.

2. **Consistency in Workbench Preferences** (sliptonic can't attend)
- An early design decision made it that workbench preferences were only loaded when the workbench was loaded.
- This was done to minimize startup time and memory usage by not loading unused modules
- Historically, users found it confusing.  The user experience in the preference system was inconsistent. Especially for newbies, preference may not match what they are seeing in documentation or a YouTube video. 
- We have periodically considered loading all preference pages on startup to avoid user confusion. There was pushback from some forum users who may have many addons loaded and don't want the preference system polluted by seldom used modules.
- PR https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/21981 added early loading of CAM preference pages.  This caused some regressions including  https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/23015
- Now we are in a situation where there is inconsistency.  Some workbenches and addons load prefs early.  Others don't.  IMHO, the inconsistency is worse than the original problem.
- Workbench and addon developers need some guidance on the 'right' way to do this.  A design decision should be added to the developer handbook so devs can start working towards compliance and consistency
