# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 4 November 2024**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes** (chennes, cannot attend)
   - An FPA admin needs to log into the FPA gMail account and then to the screenapp.io account to record
    
2. **Transitioning to Qt6-only** (chennes, cannot attend)
   - Ubuntu 20.04 LTS end of support is April 2025
   - Ubuntu 22.04 has Qt6.2 but not PySide
   - Supporting Qt5 takes significant developer effort
   - When and how do we want to make the switch?
  
3. Doubts regarding the recent changes with tolerances (stump, may not be able to join)

4. Prioritized issue in granting(reqrefusion)

   - The grant came to the forefront due to the negative aspects of the bounty. Existing bounties were relatively successful because the community already had their eyes on them and yes, this really sped up the process. It would be more logical to encourage granting to solve related issues instead of bounties. In this direction, these are accepted as Fixed-Goal Grant Proposals and it is enough for them to pass the committee, since the FPA vote is already marked as such, the related issue is already accepted. In this way, a relatively faster process is provided. In order to speed up even more, for proposals below a certain amount of money, approval of only the relevant expert, not the entire committee, may be even faster. Here, the process enters the standard grant proposal process in order to solve the relevant issue by the relevant person, and here he explains how he will solve the relevant issue or points to the PR he has prepared in this direction. In this direction, he states the compensation request he wants.

5. Storage of CI artifacts for testing (oursland)

   - Developers and users have requested the ability to download the build artifacts from CI for testing changes locally.  Currently, these artifacts are not being preserved as they would consume the valuable storage budget.

   - With the increase in requests for this functionality, perhaps it is time to consider requesting FPA funds to increase storage capabilities and adding the temporary preservation of build artifacts.
