Agendas/agenda-2025-10-05.md, before:

# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 5 October 2025 1530h UTC**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **AI generated code policy** (yorik)
   - Proposed AI policy: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/24126

3. **Removing the Robot Workbench** (chennes, cannot attend meeting)
   - Robot workbench contains many files without copyright notices, these are likely "All rights reserved".
   - Without those files there is not much remaining of the workbench
   - Proposal to remove it: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/24119

4. **FYI: BIM Module formatting** (marcuspollio, cannot attend meeting)
   - PR with whole BIM module formatting with black submitted on Tuesday 30th September. To be merged along git-blame-ignore-revs and enabling pre-commit for BIM before 1.1 branching. 
   - If asked to do so, can submit the same for Draft Module.

Commit message:

Add an agenda item on FEP-0010: Variant Parts

Agendas/agenda-2025-10-05.md, after:

# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 5 October 2025 1530h UTC**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **AI generated code policy** (yorik)
   - Proposed AI policy: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/24126

3. **Removing the Robot Workbench** (chennes, cannot attend meeting)
   - Robot workbench contains many files without copyright notices, these are likely "All rights reserved".
   - Without those files there is not much remaining of the workbench
   - Proposal to remove it: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/24119

4. **FYI: BIM Module formatting** (marcuspollio, cannot attend meeting)
   - PR with whole BIM module formatting with black submitted on Tuesday 30th September. To be merged along git-blame-ignore-revs and enabling pre-commit for BIM before 1.1 branching.
   - If asked to do so, can submit the same for Draft Module.

5. **FEP-0010: Variant Parts** (pieterhijma)
   - [Draft enhancement proposal](https://github.com/pieterhijma/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals/blob/variant-parts/FEPs/FEP-0010-variant-parts/README.md) for introducing variant parts to FreeCAD
   - Two implementation phases:
	 - Fine-grained dependency checking
	 - Adding variant links
   - Invitation to join the [discussion](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals/discussions/31)
