# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 21 June 2025 1530h UTC**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. **Discuss establishing ‘Official’ FreeCAD addons** (Obelisk)
Identify high-quality FreeCAD addons which are, based on functionality (and possibly other criteria to be later determined) would have their main repos migrated into the FreeCAD organization on Github. 
Original author would be given source-control over the new repo

   - Allows FreeCAD organization to assign a new maintainer in the event the addon is abandoned by its author without a need for forking and resulting confusion of which is current
   - Gives users better discoverability for high quality addons from an extended list
   - Isolates important functionality from the main codebase, which is considered useful but serves a niche audience.
   - Can be used to further refine addons before considering inclusion into main.
   - Would need a way to give these addons prominence within the manager.
   - Example candidates: Sheet Metal WB, Curves WB, FCInfo Macro, Pie Menu addon
   - Give professionals a list of add-ons which can be reasonably trusted for their work.
   - If this concept is adopted, propose the inclusion of a “FreeCAD Approved” or similar badging be displayed in addon-manager. It may also provide a secondary incentive for add-ons to strive for higher quality and value to the user.

3. **Set dates for next release, and discuss release cycle timing** (chennes)
   - Can we move to quarterly point releases? Or something similar?
   - More predictable for users and devs
   - Regular freeze-and-fix-bugs timing

4. **Set up a backwards + forward compatibility policy** (yorik)
   - Kadet has started a FEP. It defines how we could do it, but it will still need people to actually code
   - Would a set of canonical test files be useful?
   - What's the best path to make this happen?
  
5. **The "Werner problem"** (yorik)
   - Older devs/contributors have recently (Werner, Dave) and not so recently (Abdullah, ChrisB) left the project, mostly on disagreement with the direction the project is taking.
   - Are there common points between all these? Or are they all leaving for different reasons? What can we identify?
   - Could they have been avoided?
   - Is there more to come?
   - Should we (the developers community) be doing something differently?
   - Is there something the FPA should be doing differently?
  
6. **Current status of the wiki and changes to some processes** (reqrefusion)
   - Wiki now looks pretty good on mobile. Same solution as Wikipedia.
   - Wiki now has WYSIWYG(What You See Is What You Get) editor. Editing English pages is much easier. Same solution as Wikipedia.
   - The wiki now uses the AprovedRevs plugin. This means that changes made by people who are not part of the editor group must be approved. Should it be easier to become a member of the wiki?
   - I am trying to integrate the wiki's solution elastica for the search feature. But it is a bit complicated.
