# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 15 February 2025**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin needs to log into the FPA Gmail account and then to the screenapp.io account to record

2. **How to handle permissions on the new ex-Ondsel repos?** (Yorik)
   - How should we go about this? USe the same permissions as the FreeCAD repo? But then it needs to become part of our weekly merge rountine. Amritpal signalled that there are PRs in the queue already, that are not processed. He asked if he could have merge permissions, and it would make sense to give these permissions to ex-Ondsel people who worked on that code already, and who are going to work further on it through the Ondsel grant. I would maybe elect some of them to be elected maintainers on those repos. Sliptonic might advise who those should be.

3. **Code reviews for PRs** (chennes)
   - Problem: FreeCAD's code quality is uneven.  Poor code quality results in slow performance, regression errors, and slower development of new features.  It also makes it difficult for new developers to join the project and work across multiple modules.
   - Problem: Code review is time consuming and cannot be effectively performed during the weekly PR review meetings.
   - Problem: Onboarding new developers requires balancing rigorous code quality review with understanding of their limitations and available time.
   - Possible solution: dedicated group of frontline reviewers to look at new PRs, onboard new devs, and help with code-related issues. Complement to DWG and CAG.

4. **Profiling instrumentation** (chennes)
   - [PR 19428](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/19428) proposes adding support for the Tracy profiler
   - For best results, this requires manual instrumentation of areas of the code that are under investigation
   - cppcon2023 presentation on Tracy: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ghXk3Bk5F2U
   - Is this something we want permanently in the codebase?

5. **Process for choosing which standards and libraries to support** (chennes)
   - Basic principle: FreeCAD is Open Source, and compiling it yourself is a fully-supported distribution method
   - Not everyone can update their system to use the newest compilers or libraries
   - Not everyone wants to wholly duplicate all tooling and libraries for each piece of software (e.g. Pixi)
   - Given that: we choose a C++ standard, Python minimum version, and library minimum versions to support
   - Historically, we chose a popular LTS distro and used that to set our versions (currently Ubuntu 20.04 LTS)
   - Arbitrary, but easy to implement and easy to explain
   - Major costs to project:
       - have to support many versions of libraries (e.g. Qt5 and Qt6)
       - leads to code complexity, multiple code paths, lots of dev effort
       - can't use latest library features (e.g. Start couldn't use Qt Quick because of changes from Qt 5.12 to Qt 5.15)
       - cant't use latest language features (C++17 and Python 3.8 are *old*)
       - every 1.5 years we have to argue about it
    - Discuss: alternatives?
