# FreeCAD Developer Meeting Minutes

## Meeting Information
-   **Date:** May 17, 2025
-   **Time:** 15:30 UTC
-   **Location:** Virtual

## Agenda Items
1.  Discussion on the next release (1.1)
2.  Recap from last week: Merge process for large features (Dave's Rocket Shop concerns)
3.  FreeCAD Enhancement Proposal (FEP) decision process
4.  Open Cascade (OCC) liaison update
5.  FPA Discussion: Honorarium for maintainers
6.  FPA grant deadline reminder

## Discussion Points

### 1. Next Release (1.1) and Release Cadence
-   **Chris Hennes (@chennes)** initiated the discussion, emphasizing the need to plan for version 1.1 to avoid long gaps between releases, similar to the one before 1.0.1.
-   **Pieter Hijma (@pieter)** expressed a desire to include an improved user experience for VarSets (e.g., rename functionality) in 1.1, as he feels the current state in 1.0 is lacking. He also advocated for including the latest stable Open Cascade Technology (OCC) version, likely 7.9.x, as OCC 8.0 is not expected until Q1 2026,. This would help in reporting bugs to OCC with their latest release.
-   **Benjamin Nauck (@hyarion)** inquired about the plan for backporting fixes to 1.0.2.
    -   **Chris Hennes** confirmed that backporting to 1.0.2 would nominally continue until 1.1 is released, though it becomes progressively harder as the main codebase diverges.
-   **Kacper Donat (@kadet)** suggested a timeline for 1.1: a feature freeze in 2-3 months, allowing for a release in approximately 4-5 months. This would place the 1.1 release about a year after 1.0,.
-   **Jackson Oursland (@oursland)** noted that while version 1.0 had a set of compelling new features, 1.1 appears to be more of a refinement and general update. He proposed a time-based quarterly release cycle:
    -   Branch off from main quarterly for a future release.
    -   Spend the next quarter backporting bug fixes merged into main.
    -   Release at the end of that quarter.
    -   He later clarified this would involve a release branch, with main continuing active development.
    -   He also mentioned that he and Adrian are working on getting OCC 7.9 buildable, currently succeeding if IFC OpenShell is disabled.
-   **Concerns about Quarterly Releases:**
    -   **Benjamin** liked the quarterly idea but was concerned about having sufficient manpower for continuous bug fixing.
    -   **Kacper** shared this concern, fearing a lack of focus on bug fixing if new features could still be merged to the main branch, and noted the potential strain on the release manager.
-   **Alternative Release Strategy (Kacper):**
    -   A yearly Long-Term Support (LTS) release, which would be more polished and have a dedicated feature freeze and bug-fixing period.
    -   Quarterly releases based on "good enough" weekly builds (e.g., "2025.1"), providing more stable options than weeklies without the full rigor of an LTS.
    -   This idea was positively received by **Pieter** and **Benjamin Nauck**.
-   **Adrian's Input (Release Manager):**
    -   Joined late and was caught up. He liked the time-based aspect of Jackson's proposal but questioned if a quarter was sufficient for developers.
    -   He preferred Jackson's branch-and-backport model over simply picking a weekly build, advocating for a shorter feature freeze than the one for 1.0.
-   **API Stability and Experimental Features:**
    -   **Kacper** highlighted that a faster release cadence would necessitate a way to mark features as experimental or subject to change, as not everything could be perfectly stable on a quarterly cycle.
    -   **Jackson** agreed and mentioned the need for a published API and a clear deprecation strategy to manage changes.
-   **Path Forward:**
    -   **Jackson** will write up his quarterly release proposal for formal discussion,.
    -   The topic will be added to the next developer meeting's agenda.

### 2. Merge Process for Large Features
-   **Chris** recapped the previous discussion stemming from Dave's (@davesrocketshop) concerns about merging large features, including PR splitting and code review depth. Dave was not present at this meeting.
-   **Benjamin** described the challenges with the multi-core grant work (with Tritao), which involves substantial changes making an MVP difficult. They are using a feature switch and have a draft PR for context, but it highlights the recurring problem of integrating large features.
-   **Pieter** acknowledged the issue: forcing an incremental approach can detract from core development time. He suggested that if there's confidence in developers' commitment, large features could be merged after a quarterly release, with incremental fixes following. He also noted the burden of constant rebasing and the Git expertise required.
-   **Kacper** stated he prefers reviewing large PRs for complete context, though he understands they take longer. He is personally fine with splitting PRs or rewriting code. He suggested:
    -   A large "context" PR for big features.
    -   Reviewers could then suggest merging parts sooner.
    -   Draft PRs should be opened early for feedback.
    -   He emphasized that if code is already written, it should be shown to reviewers.
    -   He also mentioned that good commit hygiene makes piecemeal merging (e.g., cherry-picking) easier.
-   **Adrian** expressed caution about merging PRs with the expectation of fixing issues later, as these fixes often don't materialize without a robust tracking system.
-   **Kacper** (responding to Adrian) agreed, stating such merges should only happen if the outstanding problems are acceptable long-term, assuming they might never be fixed.
-   **Benjamin** noted that grant-funded work has a built-in incentive for completion, which might make "fix later" more viable in those specific cases.
-   **Chris** highlighted the tension: developers need to avoid extensive work before getting design feedback, yet reviewers need context. He suggested early draft PRs followed by piecemeal merges, acknowledging GitHub's limitations for this workflow.
-   **Process Improvement Ideas:**
    -   **Pieter** suggested using GitHub Projects to break down large features into smaller, manageable issues that can be worked on and PR'd separately.
    -   **Chris** proposed that this discussion should culminate in an update to the maintainer's guide, outlining a process for large feature development.

### 3. FreeCAD Enhancement Proposal (FEP) Decision Process
-   **Kacper** presented the updated FEP0 (the FEP for FEPs). Key points:
    -   The previous idea of voting was dropped in favor of a consensus-based process, as agreed by the maintainers group.
    -   **Process:**
        1.  Author creates an FEP.
        2.  Preliminary feedback is gathered.
        3.  Author moves FEP to "proposed" status, initiating a formal discussion period of at least two weeks.
        4.  Maintainers assess if consensus has been reached (currently an informal assessment, similar to PR reviews).
    -   FEP0 itself is now entering this formal 2-week "proposed" stage, with comments to be made on its PR.
    -   The structure of FEP documents (template) seems to have general agreement.
-   **Pieter** reviewed the changes and expressed concern that "consensus" is abstract and its interpretation might vary between FEPs, especially for critical ones.
-   **Chris** acknowledged the concern but argued that the current flexibility allows the community to discover what works best. A more rigid definition of consensus can be added later if needed.
-   **Pieter** agreed but suggested the FEP0 document should explicitly state that the consensus definition is intentionally abstract and will be refined with experience. **Kacper** agreed to add this note.
-   **Benjamin** appreciated the approach, noting FreeCAD's unique context (small team, no top-down hierarchy). He asked if new FEPs can be started before FEP0 is finalized.
    -   **Kacper** indicated that the FEP document structure is stable, so work on other FEPs (like Jackson's release cadence proposal) could likely begin based on that structure.

### 4. Open Cascade (OCC) Liaison Update
-   **Pieter** provided an update on his work as OCC liaison:
    -   He shared his screen showing a project board tracking OCC-related issues (currently 58), categorized (crash, hang, regression, etc.) and with statuses.
    -   One significant crash (a fillet operation) has been fixed by OCC after he reported it.
    -   His process: minimize the model in FreeCAD, create a `draw.exe` test script, reproduce the stack trace, then report to OCC.
    -   This process is time-consuming (about one issue per week). He asked for ideas on how to involve the community to accelerate reporting.
    -   He suggested grouping issues by theme (e.g., all fillet issues) when reporting to OCC, so they might address them more fundamentally.
-   **Blobfish Patches:**
    -   **Adrian** raised the topic of the ["Blobfish" patches](https://gitlab.com/blobfish/occt) currently in FreeCAD's OCC fork. Conda Forge has dropped these patches from their OCC builds. He proposed identifying critical fixes from these patches and getting them addressed upstream by OCC.
    -   **Pieter** recalled Blobfish advising against using his patches and was concerned about reporting issues to OCC that are masked by these non-upstreamable patches (due to SLA issues with Blobfish). He recommended focusing on vanilla OCC.
    -   **Benjamin** clarified Blobfish released patches under LGPL as he didn't want to sign OCC's CLA.
    -   **Adrian** argued FreeCAD can use the patches as it's not redistributing OCC as a library. He wants to identify important fixes and report the underlying bugs to OCC, possibly reopening issues in FreeCAD's tracker that were closed due to these patches,.
    -   **Kacper** cautioned against mass-reopening old issues, suggesting that if bugs are still relevant, users will re-report them.
    -   **Benjamin** suggested using the *knowledge* from the patches to create new bug reports and test cases for vanilla OCC.
-   **Community Involvement & Tools for OCC Bug Reporting:**
    -   **Adrian** asked if Pieter always creates geometry from scratch in `draw` scripts or if importing a BREP of the last working state is acceptable to OCC. Pieter confirmed BREP import is likely fine.
    -   **Benjamin** proposed creating a tool within FreeCAD to generate `draw` scripts from a selected shape, simplifying the creation of minimal test cases.
    -   **Kacper** supported this, adding that asking users for a minimal FreeCAD file that reproduces a crash is reasonable, while writing `draw` scripts might be too much for most.
    -   **Adrian** suggested asking OCC for their preference on minimal examples vs. BREP files. He also proposed a blog post and a voting system on Pieter's GitHub project to help prioritize which OCC issues to tackle.
    -   **Pieter** is currently prioritizing crashes. He floated the idea of an FPA grant for educational materials on building OCC, custom FreeCAD builds, debugger usage, etc., across platforms.
    -   **Benjamin** thought educational material would be good, especially if the process is simplified. He also suggested enabling FreeCAD to run `draw` files directly for easier testing and mentioned bounties as a motivator. He also noted OCC's website uses an old FreeCAD logo.
    -   **Adrian** offered to include the `draw.exe` executable in weekly builds (it's currently removed) to facilitate testing.
    -   **Pieter** stressed the importance of testing issues against the latest OCC version before reporting.
    -   **Adrian** suggested that Snap or Flatpak builds of FreeCAD could be built against the latest OCC main branch to provide a testing platform. This was well-received by **Pieter**. **Chris Hennes** noted **@furgo16** actively maintains the Snap package.
    -   **Benjamin** requested that any build/testing solutions also consider Windows users (e.g., via Pixi).

### 5. FPA Discussion: Honorarium for Maintainers
-   **Chris** introduced the topic: the FPA discussed a potential honorarium (e.g., $100/month stipend) for maintainers to incentivize activity.
    -   **Brad Collette (@sliptonic)**, unable to attend, commented via the agenda that $100/month is not a significant motivator. He proposed instead giving maintainers a budget they could allocate to tasks like bug fixing or paying for reviews.
-   **Turan Furkan Topak (@reqrefusion)** clarified the original idea was more symbolic (like a fruit basket or pizza party), a "thank you" rather than substantial payment. He felt Brad's budget idea added complexity and measurement issues.
-   **Kacper** expressed strong concerns that direct payment to maintainers could create negative community dynamics and undue expectations (e.g., "you're paid, fix my PR!"). He later suggested "honorary grants" for specific valuable contributions from any community member (not just maintainers), decided by FPA vote, similar to past grants for Werner. He also felt uncomfortable receiving payment in months he was inactive.
-   **Benjamin** liked the "token of appreciation" concept. A small amount could be a nice gesture, potentially for a wider group than just maintainers (e.g., translators, moderators). He cautioned that larger sums create more problems. He also suggested a flat fee is simplest and hardest to game.
-   **John (@johnocfii)** (from his experience running a non-profit) shared that his organization avoids paying board members to prevent issues like those Kacper raised. Instead, board members derive value from deciding how the organization's budget is used. This aligns with Sliptonic's proposal. He also emphasized that if a maintainer were to receive funds from such a budget, another maintainer should propose it, not the recipient themselves.
-   **Chris** reiterated that Sliptonic's proposal was about giving maintainers a budget to *direct* towards community contributions, not for personal payment, thus empowering them to encourage desired behaviors.
-   **Adrian** liked Sliptonic's budget idea but questioned the process if a maintainer themselves should be a recipient â€“ how to ensure transparency. He agreed a maintainer shouldn't allocate funds to themselves. He also asked if such funds could be directed to other projects FreeCAD relies on (e.g., Coin3D).
-   **WandererFan** (via chat, relayed by Chris Hennes) clarified that the FPA would not be giving maintainers "bags of cash"; payments are handled by specific FPA members (Yorik or himself).
-   **Overall Sentiment:** General caution about direct, regular payments to maintainers due to potential negative community impact. More support for discretionary budgets managed by maintainers for community rewards/bounties, or one-off honorary grants for significant contributions. The FPA will continue discussing this, mindful of potential pitfalls.

### 6. FPA Grant Deadline Reminder
-   **Chris** reminded everyone that the FPA grant application deadline for Q2 is June 1st.
-   Few applications have been received so far.
-   These grants are intended as incentives (typically $1000-$2000) for specific projects, not as full engineering salaries.

## Decisions Made
1.  Kacper's FEP (FEP0, defining the FEP process) is now in a formal 2-week "proposed" stage for community discussion and comments on its Pull Request.

## Action Items
| Task Description                                                                                                | Person Responsible        | Deadline                     |
| :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------ | :--------------------------- |
| Post meeting minutes to GitHub.                                                                                 | Chris Hennes              | May 17, 2025 (later today)   |
| Write up a proposal for a new release cadence (e.g., quarterly releases) for formal discussion.                 | Jackson Oursland          | Hopefully within two weeks   |
| Add a note to FEP0 clarifying the abstract nature of the current consensus mechanism and its future refinement. | Kacper Donat              | After the meeting (May 17)   |
| Add "Release Cadence Discussion" to the agenda for the next developer meeting.                                  | Chris Hennes              | Next developer meeting       |
| Draft documentation for the maintainer's guide on the process for large feature development/PRs.                | Chris Hennes (implied)    | TBD                          |
| Discuss Blobfish patches and strategy for reporting underlying issues to OCC.                                   | Adrian, Pieter             | TBD                          |
| Discuss with OCC their preferred format for receiving bug reports (e.g., grouped by theme).                     | Pieter                     | TBD                          |
| Investigate including the `draw.exe` executable in FreeCAD's weekly builds.                                     | Adrian                    | TBD                          |
| Investigate creating Snap/Flatpak builds of FreeCAD against the latest OCC main branch for testing purposes.     | Adrian                   | TBD                          |

## Next Meeting
-   Sunday, 01 June 2025, 1530h UTC
-   Discussions on release cadence and the merge process for large features will be carried over.
