The following minutes were generated automatically by screenapp.io. They have been lightly edited to correct errors in the transcription.

# Agenda Items:
1. Review of blocker issues and bounty process
1. Discussion on file structure changes
1. Update on Boolean fixes
1. Introduction of "safe mode" feature
1. Discussion on addressing regressions
1. Potential UI tweaks for 1.0 release

# Discussion Points:

## Blocker Issues and Bounty Process:

* The group reviewed the list of 11 open blocker issues.
* They decided to remove the blocker tag from some issues that were not critical blockers.
* For the remaining blocker issues, the group agreed to assign $500 bounties to incentivize the community to help resolve them.
* The process for claiming bounties was discussed, with the recommendation to comment or assign oneself to the issue to avoid overlapping efforts.


## File Structure Changes:

* The group discussed the proposal to reuse the FreeCAD FCStd file format with some modifications.
* The idea is to add parameters in the document.xml file to define the file type (part, drawing, assembly) and allow users to add custom attributes.
* This would provide better file type recognition and allow users to customize file metadata.
* The group agreed this was a good approach and suggested reaching out to the BIM community for feedback.


## Boolean Fixes:

* Corvus Corvax provided an update on the PR that addresses several Boolean-related issues.
* The changes involve a wrapper around the OpenCASCADE Boolean operations to improve tolerance handling.
* The group discussed the complexity of the changes and the need for thorough testing before merging into the 1.0 release.
* The plan is to merge the PR into the main branch and monitor for any regressions during the next release candidate.


## Safe Mode:

* Hyarion introduced the "safe mode" feature, which allows users to run FreeCAD with a clean slate by remapping configuration and add-on directories.
* This feature can be helpful for troubleshooting issues and identifying if a problem is caused by user configurations or add-ons.
* The group agreed that this would be a valuable addition to the 1.0 release and planned to merge the PR during the next review meeting.


## Regressions:

* New Joker suggested reviewing the list of regression issues and prioritizing the most critical ones for the 1.0 release.
* The group discussed the approach of identifying common issues, such as sketcher problems or solver convergence failures, and addressing them.
* It was also suggested to provide documentation on how users can perform a git bisect to help identify when regressions were introduced.


## UI Tweaks:

* New Joker proposed considering some minor UI tweaks for the 1.0 release, such as making sketcher geometry and dimensions more visible by default.
* The group acknowledged the need to balance usability improvements with the risk of introducing regressions or conflicts with ongoing UI work.
* It was recommended to submit individual issues for each proposed change and have the Design Working Group review and approve them before implementation.


# Decisions Made:
* Removed the blocker tag from non-critical issues and assigned $500 bounties to the remaining blocker issues.
* Approved the proposed file structure changes and suggested reaching out to the BIM community for feedback.
* Planned to merge the Boolean fixes PR into the main branch and monitor for regressions during the next release candidate.
* Decided to merge the "safe mode" feature into the 1.0 release.
* Agreed to review the regression issues list and prioritize the most critical ones for the 1.0 release.
* Recommended submitting individual issues for any proposed UI tweaks and having the Design Working Group review and approve them.


# Action Items:

## Corvus Corvax:

Task: Monitor the Boolean fixes PR and address any issues that arise during testing.
Deadline: Before the next release candidate.

## Alex:

Task: Coordinate with the blog team to create a post about the available bounties for blocker issues.
Deadline: As soon as possible.

## chennes:

Task: Reach out to Brad McQueen's friend to see if the large test suite can be utilized for the Boolean fixes.
Deadline: Before the next review meeting.

## New Joker:

Task: Submit individual issues for proposed UI tweaks and have the Design Working Group review them.
Deadline: Before the 1.0 release.

## Community:

Task: Claim bounties and submit PRs to resolve the identified blocker issues.
Deadline: As soon as possible.

# Long-form summary

This is the "summary" generated by screenapp.io

[00:00:21] - Brad joins the meeting after last-minute changes to his schedule.  
[00:00:57] - Screenapp.io is introduced as the AI tool for recording and summarizing the meeting.  
[00:02:00] - Discussion on human volunteers for minute-taking; reliance on AI for minutes.  
[00:02:40] - Brad discusses the 1.0 release and existing blocker issues needing resolution.  
[00:03:35] - Corvus suggests focusing on tricky Mac issues for bounty allocation.  
[00:05:02] - Debate on whether to assign equal bounty amounts or vary based on issue severity.  
[00:08:01] - Proposal to categorize blockers using a simple t-shirt sizing for bounty amounts.  
[00:09:21] - Review of the first blocker issue regarding unit system switching in unsaved documents.  
[00:10:11] - Consensus that the first issue is annoying but not a blocker for release.  
[00:12:44] - Discussion on a Mac OS issue causing crashes when double-clicking documents.  
[00:15:09] - Agreement to keep the Mac issue as a blocker with a $500 bounty.  
[00:16:01] - Consideration of a Chinese character issue as a blocker due to user impact.  
[00:18:28] - Decision to categorize the Chinese character issue as a known bug, not a blocker.  
[00:20:12] - Proposal to create a 1.0.1 milestone for unresolved issues post-release.  
[00:22:22] - Road surface issue identified as a legitimate blocker needing attention.  
[00:23:04] - Sketcher slot failure discussed; severity debated regarding its blocker status.  
[00:30:24] - Crash issue when closing 3D view with an open task panel identified as a blocker.  
[00:32:31] - Vail and text input warnings discussed; proposed quick fix without bounty.  
[00:35:04] - Dark theme legibility issue on start page debated; not considered a blocker.  
[00:37:01] - Dark theme issues in FreeCAD on Linux; tags appear poorly.  
[00:38:07] - Discussion on fixing UI issues; potential $500 bounty offered.  
[00:39:03] - Material child ignoring parent issue; not considered a blocker.  
[00:40:26] - Chamfering OCC crash identified as an OCC bug; not a blocker.  
[00:41:29] - All bounty-tagged issues set at $500; developers encouraged to claim.  
[00:43:01] - Developers should comment or assign issues when claiming bounties.  
[00:44:11] - New file structure discussed; reusing FCC STD file format possible.  
[00:46:07] - Generic file type suggested for quick work; should allow part saving.  
[00:48:02] - Input from BIM users needed; Yoric, main BIM developer, unavailable.  
[00:49:15] - Backward compatibility important; version checks for file opening discussed.  
[00:51:06] - Boolean fixes debated; potential merge into 1.0 or 1.01 discussed.  
[00:55:57] - Fuzzy values introduced to improve Boolean operations; testing needed.  
[01:00:02] - Concerns about experimental features affecting model stability raised.  
[01:09:09] - Safe mode feature allows clean testing environment; useful for bug reports.  
[01:11:06] - Safe mode can be activated via command line; tested on multiple platforms.  
[01:12:01] - Safe mode feature tested on Mac, Linux, and Windows; needs more code review.  
[01:12:46] - Adding safe mode could help with user support and bug identification.  
[01:13:44] - Request for additional C++ programmers to review code for safety.  
[01:16:08] - Plan to merge safe mode feature during the PR review meeting on Monday.  
[01:16:44] - Discussion on addressing regressions in the upcoming version; need to prioritize issues.  
[01:19:06] - Max suggests considering modeling regressions as blockers for the next release.  
[01:20:06] - Proposal for documentation on how to perform a git bisect for regression tracking.  
[01:21:37] - New Joker raises UI display settings issues; suggests changing default values for usability.  
[01:24:27] - Concerns about making UI tweaks; need for consensus and careful consideration.  
[01:28:11] - General agreement that no UI changes can be made without thorough discussion.  
[01:29:07] - Max proposes a blog post to raise awareness about newly marked blocker issues.  
[01:29:30] - Blog team agrees to create a post to inform users about blocker issues and bounties.  


[00:00:21] Brad arrives at the meeting, explaining that last-minute changes in plans allowed him to attend. The meeting is being recorded by an AI tool called screenapp.io, which will generate a transcript, summary, and summary of the summary for the minutes. A request for a human volunteer to take minutes is made, but no one steps forward, leading to the decision to rely on the AI for minutes.

[00:02:13] Brad discusses the progress on the 1.0 release, noting that there are several blocker issues that need to be addressed. He mentions the need to evaluate whether these issues are true blockers or if the release can proceed with known bugs. The group is tasked with reviewing the blocker issues and establishing rules for claiming bounties for resolving them.

[00:03:55] Corvus suggests that there are tricky issues on Mac that need attention, particularly crashes. He emphasizes that while bounty money can be offered, it may not matter if no one is available to work on the issues. The group discusses the potential budget for bounties and whether to assign equal amounts to all issues or differentiate based on severity.

[00:05:33] The conversation shifts to the complexity of managing bounty assignments, with some members advocating for simplicity to avoid delays in the release. The group considers a t-shirt sizing approach for pricing bounties, categorizing issues as A, B, or C based on their severity. They agree to review the current list of blocker issues to determine their status.

[00:08:42] Brad shares the current list of 11 open issues marked as blockers. The group decides to evaluate each issue to confirm if it is genuinely a blocker. The first issue discussed involves a regression related to the core unit system, with members debating whether it should remain a blocker or be marked as a known issue.

[00:10:37] The group concludes that the first issue is annoying but does not prevent the release, so they decide to remove the blocker tag. They discuss the possibility of assigning a bounty for its resolution, but ultimately decide to keep bounty money focused on true blockers.

[00:12:09] The next issue involves a crash on Mac OS when double-clicking a document. The group agrees that this is a significant issue and decides to keep it as a blocker with a $500 bounty attached to encourage resolution.

[00:15:30] A new issue is raised regarding a binder failing when running on paths with Chinese characters. The group discusses the severity of this issue, noting that while there is a workaround, it is not user-friendly. They ultimately decide that it should not be classified as a blocker due to the existence of a workaround.

[00:18:28] The discussion continues with the idea of creating a 1.0.1 milestone for issues that are severe but not critical for the current release. The group agrees to prioritize bugs and consider assigning bounties for higher-priority issues even if they are not release-related.

[00:20:58] The next issue discussed involves road surfaces created on planes other than X, Y. The group agrees that this is a legitimate blocker and decides to assign a bounty for its resolution. The following issue involves a failure in creating slots with constraints, which is also deemed a blocker due to its impact on user workflow.

[00:23:40] The group discusses a crash that occurs when closing a task panel related to the 3D view. They agree that this is a serious issue and decide to keep the blocker tag while assigning a bounty for its resolution. The next issue involves constant warnings from Vail and text input, which is identified as a minor fix that does not warrant a bounty.

[00:32:31] The group discusses an issue related to changing pad dimensions, which could potentially break existing files. They agree that this should remain a blocker and assign a bounty for its resolution. The final issue discussed involves a regression affecting the start page's legibility in dark mode, which is deemed annoying but not critical enough to be a blocker. The group decides to assign a bounty for its resolution.
[00:37:01] Discussion begins about the appearance of FreeCAD on Linux with a dark theme. The classic theme is selected, but the tags appear in a white theme, creating a poor visual experience. The speaker expresses that while it looks bad, it is not a critical issue as the software is functional, albeit hard to read. There is a suggestion to offer a $500 bounty to incentivize fixing the visual issues, emphasizing the importance of first impressions for new users.

[00:38:32] The conversation shifts to specific issues in the UI, particularly regarding part design and migration. A consensus is reached that some issues are indeed blockers, and the group decides to allocate funds to address them. The discussion then moves to a material-related issue that has not been resolved, with uncertainty about its impact on users' work. It is decided to move this issue to a later milestone, indicating it is not a blocker for the current release.

[00:40:26] The next topic is an OCC crash related to chamfering. The group acknowledges it as an OCC bug that is difficult to catch in practice. The consensus is that it should not be a blocker, and the discussion continues about the bounty system, with all issues tagged for bounties set at $500 to streamline the process. Participants are encouraged to claim bounties and communicate their intentions to avoid overlapping efforts.

[00:43:45] The meeting transitions to discussing a new file structure. The speaker explains that reusing the existing FCC STD file format is feasible with some modifications. They propose adding parameters to the document.xml file to define file types and custom attributes, which would enhance user experience. The generic file format is deemed useful but should be marketed for quick or exploratory work, with suggestions for renaming it to "Playground" or "Sandbox."

[00:46:53] A question arises about the property group in the property panel, which would allow users to create custom attributes. The importance of reaching out to BIM users for input on the proposed changes is highlighted, especially since the main BIM developer is absent from the meeting. The speaker emphasizes the need for feedback from BIM users to ensure the changes are beneficial.

[00:49:38] The discussion continues with a focus on backward compatibility, stressing that files created in newer versions should not be opened in older versions to prevent issues. The speaker suggests that new files could serve as templates for various standards, enhancing usability for users creating assemblies or parts in specific formats.

[00:50:50] The conversation shifts to Boolean fixes and whether they should be merged into the current release or postponed. There are concerns about the complexity of the changes and the potential for introducing bugs. The speaker notes that the pull request is nearly ready but requires final testing, particularly due to issues with OCCT versions affecting test cases.

[00:52:28] The group discusses the implications of merging the Boolean changes, which affect all Boolean operations in FreeCAD. A release candidate is proposed to allow for further testing before the final release. The speaker expresses confidence in the changes but acknowledges the need for thorough testing to ensure stability.

[00:56:16] The conversation highlights the importance of user experience, particularly regarding the introduction of experimental features. The speaker argues that if a feature is experimental, it should not be included in the stable release. Instead, it should be a property of the object to ensure consistent behavior across different user environments.

[01:00:02] The discussion concludes with a focus on the safe mode feature, which allows users to run FreeCAD with a clean slate by remapping directories for configurations and add-ons. This feature is seen as beneficial for troubleshooting and testing bugs. The speaker demonstrates how to activate safe mode and emphasizes its utility for users reporting issues. There is a call for further suggestions and testing to refine the feature before its potential inclusion in future releases.
[01:12:01] The discussion begins with a focus on a feature that has been tested on Mac and Linux, with recent bug fixes for the Windows build. The speaker expresses confidence that the code is robust and unlikely to cause issues, suggesting that the worst-case scenario would be that safe mode does not function properly. The speaker is open to adding this feature to version 1.0, emphasizing its potential to assist new users and alleviate support challenges.

[01:12:56] There is agreement among the participants that the feature is necessary, especially with an anticipated increase in new users. The conversation highlights the importance of having a safe mode to help users troubleshoot configuration issues without needing to delete files. The speaker requests additional reviews from C++ programmers to ensure the safety of the code before proceeding with the merge.

[01:14:01] The need for the safe mode feature is reiterated, with acknowledgment of its potential to save time for support staff in the event of numerous bugs. The discussion shifts to the idea of a partial safe mode that could allow users to disable specific extensions or themes to identify bugs more easily. The design working group is tasked with determining the appropriate user interface for this feature.

[01:16:08] The plan is to review the pull request (PR) during the upcoming meeting and merge it unless significant objections arise. The conversation then transitions to the topic of regressions in the new version, with a participant noting complaints about various issues, including lack of support for Windows 7 and problems with 3D manipulators.

[01:17:05] The speaker suggests reviewing the list of regression bugs in a future meeting to prioritize fixes for the next release. They emphasize the importance of addressing regressions that were not present in the previous version to improve user satisfaction. The discussion includes specific issues like over or under-constraint cases and solver failures.

[01:18:27] The group agrees that addressing regressions is crucial for the upcoming release, with a focus on identifying common issues that need resolution. A participant suggests creating clear documentation on how to perform a "git bisect" to help users identify when bugs were introduced, which could facilitate faster issue resolution.

[01:20:49] The conversation returns to the topic of user interface (UI) changes, with a participant proposing adjustments to default display settings to improve user experience. Suggestions include making geometries and dimensions more visible and enabling certain features by default to enhance usability for new users.

[01:22:38] The group discusses the potential impact of these UI changes, noting that even small adjustments could have significant implications. There is a consensus that any proposed changes should be carefully considered and submitted as individual issues for review by the design working group to ensure compatibility with existing designs.

[01:24:27] The discussion emphasizes the need for thorough evaluation of any UI tweaks, as they could be perceived as features. Participants agree that changes should be made only if there is a strong consensus and that each proposed change should be documented and discussed in detail.

[01:28:36] The meeting concludes with a reminder to address blocker issues marked with a bounty label, suggesting that a blog post could be created to raise awareness. The group expresses appreciation for the contributions made during the meeting and encourages ongoing collaboration to resolve issues and improve the software.
