# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 06 July 2025 1530h UTC**

1. AI-generated minutes failed due to an audio recording failure
   - These minutes are hand-recorded. Please submit corrections (as always).
     
2. **Codebase reformatting** - @kadet1090
   - changes to existing style were proposed - https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/21019
   - some modules (both C++ and Python) still need to be formatted
   - when to merge changes?
       - Consensus was to merge just prior to the branch for the next release
   - how to deal with conflicts, especially for larger forks?
       - Work directly with AstoCAD to mitigate issues
  
3. **FEP - FreeCAD Enhancement Proposal** - @oursland
   - Core Change / Informational / Process FEPs
   - https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals

4. **FEP-0003: FreeCAD Release Schedule and Process** - @oursland
   - Proposal to move to a quarterly release, with one being designated as a LTS each year
      - automated release branching each quarter
      - label PRs for backport during merge review, for automated cherry-picking to the release branches
      - automated release each quarter
      - patch releases monthly during support period
   - Each month a new patch release is made, incorporating backported fixes
   - The release branches may be used as beta releases on a regular schedule such as monthly.
      - Stable Release, updated monthly
      - Beta Release, updated monthly
      - Weekly build from `main`, updated weekly
   - Some have raised concerns about non-code components of a release
      - Translations
      - User Manuals
      - Website
   - https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals/pull/16
   - Overall consensus was that this seems like a good starting point for the FEP, and that it can proceed to the "proposed" stage for further discussion about implementation details.

5. **FEP-0004: Python API Versioning** - @oursland
   - Placeholder proposal to implement API versioning
   - Intended to set versioning for APIs to:
      - inform developers when an API is deprecated or obsoleted and when it will be removed
      - add-ons declare API versions used to ensure compatibility on a fine-grained basis
      - This agenda item is informational.
    
6. **User Manual** - @oursland
   - The wiki is not great due to it's out-of-sync nature and lack of versioning
   - I recall someone is migrating from wiki to a Markdown based static site, what's the status and how can we keep things versioned and current?
       - There have been efforts towards doing this in the past: they never reached fruition
       - Concerns about Markdown rendering being poor and inflexible for proper documentation
       - Open Source project: migration could only achieve success if the people doing the work are willing to migrate

7. **Text Style Standardization** - hyarion
   - Proposal for language style guidelines from the Design Working Group
   - Based on APA standards, multiple platform guidelines, and meta-analysis of common CAD software practices
   - Implementation has begun, but remains open to discussion or objections before continuing more broadly
   - Discussion centered arount the process. Consensus was that this should be a FEP, to achieve whatever rough consensus we can.
  
8. **Actions and decisions of working groups are too opaque** - @Roy-043
   - One of the problems of the FreeCAD community is that it has become insular. Groups have turned their back on the forum and have discussions on different platforms instead. But their actions and decisions then do impact the project and other contributors. This can easily lead to conflicts. We need to re-examine this practice.
   - Delayed to next meeting due to technical difficulties with audio
