# FreeCAD Developer's Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information
- Date: December 20, 2025
- Time: 1630 hours UTC
- Location: Jit.si

## 2. Agenda Items
- Feature Freeze Exception for Assembly Change
- Joint References to Remove Cyclic Dependency PRs
- Enhancement Proposal (FEP): Materials Editor Rework
- Generic Collaboration Framework

## 3. Discussion Points

### Feature Freeze Exception
- Request by Pierre (unable to attend, represented by Turan) to allow a pull request (PR) to be merged despite the feature freeze, related to assembly change joint references ([PR 25513](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/25513))
- Merging the PR will be necessary for files created in 1.2 to be compatible with 1.1
- Concern raised about missed deadline and potential file format breaking without migration.
- Discussion on backward compatibility (1.1 files loading in 1.2) versus forward compatibility (reverse).
- The team generally agreed that reverse compatibility wasn't required (users who require forward compatibility can consider the fork that provides it).
- Concerns about the riskiness of the PR and the potential for breaking things were raised.
- Concerns about the fairness of merging this PR, when other devs also had work that missed the deadline and was moved to 1.2.
- It was noted that the feature freeze isn't the main concern here, since this is a bug fix, not a feature. The reason the merge was postponed was the perceived riskiness of the change, not that it included a feature.
- The lack of automated testing of the change made by the PR was highlighted as a significant risk factor, particularly as related to the file migration code.
- Overall the PR was viewed as too risky to merge so close to a release.

### Policy on Exceptions to Feature Freeze
- Discussion about maintaining self-discipline and timely releases versus making exceptions for valuable contributions.
- There are currently 387 open pull requests: can a policy be developer for how and when to consider merging significant PRs even after the freeze deadline?
- Any decision to merge a PR during the final phase of a release needs to consider the maturity level of different parts of the application.
- The assembly workbench is newer and subject to more change: should have been labeled "experimental" on original release, but too late for that now.
- The maintainers should consider the value a pull request would bring versus the risks involved.
- Kacper mentioned explicitly asking how much value a PR will bring, including how many issues or broken files it will fix.
- It was suggested that the criteria for making exceptions should be documented.
- Peter expressed trust in maintainers' discretion and cautioned against over-formalization.
- Overall there it was viewed that there are too many factors to consider for simple codifcation.

### Enhancement Proposal (FEP-0006): Materials Editor Rework
- Dave (@davesrocketshop) presented an enhancement proposal for reworking the materials editor.
- The goal is to address outstanding issues and enhancements to the materials editor.
- The scope is limited to the editor itself, with other material-related issues to be discussed separately.
- The proposal includes a new interface design with menu operations in the file tree.
- Drag and drop functionality will be added.
- There will be context menus that are sensitive to the selected item.
- Support for external libraries will be enabled from within the same editor
- There will be new features including search support and tags for materials.
- The main changes will be in the preferences, with library management moved to the main UI.
- The FEP aims for backwards compatibility and no changes to the underlying material definition.
- Tags will make things more searchable.
- Kacper said that we probably need to add labels to that button or maybe something like the material icon should have a little plus icon so we know that it's creating something.

### Materials Editor Rework: Discussion
- John asked about splitting actions into general and context actions
- The actions should allow management of the cards.
- John inquired about a central way to manage tags and fixing errors.
- The tag widget supports passing a list of known tags for completion and verification.
- He also asked for an example of the add-on API.
- Kacper considered the FEP ready to be moved to the discussion phase and said that he will provide comments on the proper return
- Kacper requested an example implementation for the Xfinant database to be included in the FEP
- Brad asked about the lifecycle of a material and how it relates to the UI.
- Pieter agreed that the FEP captures all the issues related to the material editor and suggested that there is a need to specify where the changes are.

### Generic Collaboration Framework
- Pieter presented his work on a generic collaboration framework in FreeCAD
- It includes a collaboration module with a "collaboration topic" class, which attaches labels to the geometry of a part.
- The goal is to create a framework that can be extended by various modules, such as the Lens add-on or a PDM system.
- Mentioned the BCF plugin (BIM Collaboration Format) as an existing effort in this area.
- Most of the code should be in Python.
- Kacper suggested this should be an FEP
- There were suggestions that it should be two FEPs: one for the Python module structure issue (probably written by @mnesarco) and one for the new framework.

### AI Policies
- Pieter shared information about a meeting with NLnew regarding AI in coding and open-source projects
- He pointed out that the orignally stated that the policies are very strict
- NLnet is planning to come up with a policy and they see it as an opportunity
- Discussed the possibility of requiring logging interactions with AI

## 6. Next Meeting
- Date: First Sunday of January
- Time: Regular time
- Location: Jit.si
