# FreeCAD Developer Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information:

- **Date:** March 29, 2024
- **Time:** 1530 UTC
- **Location:** Jit.si Meet
- **Attendees:** chennes, Pieter, oursland, Max, Ajinkya, Yorik, PhoneDroid, Reqrefusion, pierreporte

## 2. Agenda Items:

- Add-on Manager as a Sub-module
- OpenCascade Liaison Topics
- AP242 STEP Editions Support
- Commercial Data Exchange Add-on
- OCC Liaison Project Overview
- Enabling Co-pilot for PR Reviews
- Telemetry Add-on Testing and Development
- Documenting Dependency Change Procedures
- Add-ons to Augment Core Functionality
- File Format Compatibility Mode

## 3. Discussion Points:

### Add-on Manager as a Sub-module:

- chennes proposed moving the Add-on Manager to its own sub-module for independent updates.
- Discussion on the benefits, such as faster updates and decoupling from FreeCAD Core.
- Pieter questioned the necessity given FreeCAD's slow release cycle.
- chennes explained the potential for backporting features to older FreeCAD versions.
- Further discussion on implementation details and potential for other modules to follow suit.

### OpenCascade Liaison Topics:

- Pieter introduced himself as the new OpenCascade Liaison.
- Discussion on standardizing the OpenCascade version used by FreeCAD to 7.9.0.
- oursland mentioned the status of OCC 7.9.0 integration and upcoming OCC 8.0 re-architecture.
- Discussion on OpenCascade's API stability commitment for 8.0.
- Concerns about compatibility with older Ubuntu versions were raised.

### AP242 STEP Editions Support:

- Max discussed the need to support newer AP242 STEP editions.
- The scope of the project and the availability of the STEP standard were discussed.
- oursland mentioned the relevance to the Assembly Workbench and the potential for future integration.
- Lack of current GD&T support in FreeCAD was identified as a potential blocker.
- Discussion on how to attract developers to work on this feature.

### Commercial Data Exchange Add-on:

- Pieter discussed a proposed commercial add-on for advanced file format support.
- The add-on would use proprietary libraries to import/export data while maintaining FreeCAD's open-source nature.
- Discussion on the potential benefits and drawbacks of this approach.
- chennes mentioned the lack of traction on the forum topic and the need for clearer communication.

### OCC Liaison Project Overview:

- Pieter shared his GitHub project for tracking OpenCascade issues.
- Discussion on the project's structure and prioritization of issues.
- Pieter explained his plans for future work as OCC Liaison.
- Discussion on FPA grants and the potential for funding OpenCascade development.

### Enabling Co-pilot for PR Reviews:

- chennes proposed enabling Co-pilot for AI-assisted PR reviews.
- Discussion on the potential benefits and concerns regarding Co-pilot's usage.
- Concerns about data privacy and the cost of Co-pilot were raised.

### Telemetry Add-on Testing and Development:

- chennes requested community assistance with testing the new telemetry add-on.
- Specifically, he asked for testing the data deletion workflow and compatibility with FreeCAD 1.0.
- He also requested help with developing a public dashboard for the telemetry data.

### Documenting Dependency Change Procedures:

- Discussion on the need for a documented procedure for communicating dependency changes.
- Suggestions included updating the wiki, developer handbook, and creating blog posts.
- Discussion on the official OpenCascade version supported by FreeCAD and how to communicate this information.

### Add-ons to Augment Core Functionality:

- Discussion on how to allow add-ons to augment core functionality, such as adding TechDraw templates or CAM post-processors.
- Pieter suggested using a list of paths instead of a single path for searching these resources.
- chennes discussed the advantages of keeping add-on files in one place for easier uninstallation.

### File Format Compatibility Mode:

- chennes raised concerns about file format compatibility between FreeCAD versions.
- Discussion on Werner's proposed PR for file format conversion and the need for a compatibility mode.
- Various solutions were proposed, including user confirmation for conversion, a dedicated module for migration code, and macros for converting between versions.
- Yorik suggested creating a set of test files for each version to ensure compatibility.


## 4. Decisions Made:

- No formal decisions were made during this meeting. Most topics were discussed and will require further investigation or action in future meetings.

## 5. Action Items:

- **chennes:** Investigate Co-pilot terms and conditions and consider enabling it.
- **Community:** Test telemetry add-on, specifically data deletion and FreeCAD 1.0 compatibility.
- **Community:** Help develop a public dashboard for telemetry data.
- **chennes:** Discuss OpenCascade dependency strategy with other maintainers.
- **chennes:** Discuss add-on augmentation of core functionality with Brad and Wandererfan.
- **chennes/Community:** Further discussion on file format compatibility, potentially involving Casper.
- **Pieter:** Continue working on OCC Liaison tasks and prioritize FPA grants.

## 6. Next Meeting:

- Sunday, 6 April 2026, 1530h UTC (note that Europe will be on Summer Time then, so this returns the meeting to its normally-scheduled time for North Americans in Daylight Saving Time).
