# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 21 June 2025 1530h UTC**

1. **Discuss establishing ‘Official’ FreeCAD addons**

Proposal from Joe Sardos (@obelisk) to identify high-quality FreeCAD addons based on functionality (and possibly other criteria to be later determined), aks authors who were willing to have their main repos migrated into the FreeCAD organization on Github. The original author would be given source-control over the new repo and would remain its maintainer, but in the event they wished to stop development, the organization could find someone to take over, without having to move the repo.

@kadet1090 expressed concern that many addon authors valued having their work in their own repo, with their name on it. Several attendees voiced support for the overall idea, but implementation details remain to be decided (e.g. should a dedicated organization be setup on GitHub to host these?) An alternative would be for FreeCAD Maintainers to have permissions on these repos. It was suggested that the upcoming Addon Ecosystem Coordinator position sponsored by the FPA may have valuable input into this process.


2. **Set dates for next release, and discuss release cycle timing**

Chris Hennes (@chennes) suggested we begin thinking about setting a feature freeze date: 1.1dev already includes a lot of improvements, and 1/3 of Telemetry Addon users are using the Dev version. It is viewed as more stable than main by many. To allow time for discussion of later agenda items, this was tabled for discussion at the next developer meeting.


3. **Set up a backwards + forward compatibility policy**

Yorik van Havre (@yorik) continued the discussion on ensuring that FreeCAD could read and write files to other FreeCAD versions. @kadet1090 has started some work on this, proposing a database-migration-style strategy, with code that could be run in either direction, sequentially, to upgrade or downgrade between file formats. Another attendee suggested this could be done by an addon that could then be installed by older versions of FreeCAD. @kadet will refine his work and turn it into a FreeCAD Enhancement Proposal.
  
4. **The "Werner problem"**

Yorik began an open discussion on recent posts from Werner Mayer (@wwmayer) and others in a FreeCAD Forum discussion. Older devs/contributors have recently (Werner, Dave) and not so recently (Abdullah, ChrisB) left the project, mostly on disagreement with the direction the project is taking. Werner suggested on the Forums that some PRs were merged that should not have been, pointing to a problem in our review process. He also suggested that the FPA's grant program was not targetting appropriate work and should be revamped. Yorik has recently been in contact with Werner, who also suggested that part of his unhappiness with the FPA was that Werner was not being financially supported.

The meeting attendees suggested that much of this concern related to the 1.0 release, and that it has already been addressed in current ongoing work. It was pointed out that using a raw "number of regressions" was not necessarily a good measure of the code's quality. We have more users than before (so more bug reports), and we have Max (@maxwxyz) as our Bug Triage coordinator ensuring that bugs are correctly labeled when they are regressions. It was suggested that FreeCAD has *never* been very stable, and that any characterization of FreeCAD's past as being "better" than the present was unlikely to actually be true.

Another attendee suggested that he had worked with Werner several years ago on securing an EU grant to fund Werner's work, but that the project fell apart in the end because Werner did not feel he needed the money. This seems to conflict directly with Werner's current concern that he is doing too much work for free.

It was pointed out by attendees that Dave Carter's recent departure was directly at odds with Werner's: Dave felt that his PRs were being scrutinized too closely, and should be merged more quickly. Werner felt the opposite. Attendees expressed a belief that you can't please everyone, and that the best course is to continue as we are doing, and to continue working to improve the process.

At the end of the discussion there were no clear action items. Yorik will continue reaching out to Werner to clarify the situation.
  
7. **Current status of the wiki and changes to some processes** (reqrefusion)
   - Wiki now looks pretty good on mobile. Same solution as Wikipedia.
   - Wiki now has WYSIWYG(What You See Is What You Get) editor. Editing English pages is much easier. Same solution as Wikipedia.
   - Wiki now has an advanced search system. Same solution as Wikipedia.
   - Wiki now uses the AprovedRevs plugin. This means that changes made by people who are not part of the editor group must be approved. Should it be easier to become a member of the wiki?
  
Attendees felt it was reasonable to try opening up the Wiki for easier contributions, with the idea that we can easily change our minds if there is trouble.
   
8. **TNP issues** (prokoudine)

   - Currently, we have [over 30 open issues](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22Topic%3A%20Toponaming%22) labeled as toponaming-related
   - They affect the core, as well as Part, Part Design, Sketcher, Assembly, and a number of 3rd-party workbenches, such as SheetMetal
   - Discussion point 1: should we reopen the [TNP board](https://github.com/orgs/FreeCAD/projects/2) to start tracking them again?
   - Discussion point 2: should there be an FPA grant for fixing the outstanding issues and researching what part of the TNP fixes have been missing in upstream as compared to RT's fork? Is anyone willing to tackle that?
  
Attendees discussed how closely the TNP merge matched @realthunder's LS3 fork, and whether comparing against that fork was a productive debugging strategy. It was pointed out that some of the reported bugs in TNP were likely also bugs in LS3, but that yes, such a comparison was a good first step in debugging.

The meeting adjourned after 90 minutes. The next developer meeting is the first Sunday of July: 6 July 2025 at 1530 UTC.
