# FreeCAD Developer Meeting Minutes - September 20, 2025

## 1. Meeting Information:
*   **Date:** September 20, 2025
*   **Time:** 15:30 UTC
*   **Location:** Virtual Meeting

## 2. Agenda Items:
*   FOSDEM 2026 Planning
*   Feature Freeze Status for 1.1 Release
*   Configuration File Location Change
*   Discussion on AI-Generated Code
*   Improving User Experience of VarSet
*   Add-on News

## 3. Discussion Points:

### FOSDEM 2026 Planning
*   FOSDEM dates are January 31st and February 1st, 2026.
*   FreeCAD Day is planned for January 30th at Le Telete Teneur.
*   Chris Hennes will coordinate FreeCAD Day.
*   Joe Hinchliffe (@concretedog) and Chris Hennes (@chennes) will propose and manage the Open Hardware and CAD/CAM dev room.
*   Need help reviewing submissions and managing the room.
*   Travel funding is available through the FPA.
*   Potential hackathon in collaboration with Hackerspace Brussels (HSBXL).
*   Pieter proposed that we consider inviting OpenCascade to FOSDEM and FreeCAD Day.

### Feature Freeze Status for 1.1 Release
*   Currently in feature freeze for the 1.1 release.
*   String freeze on September 30th.
*   Kacper plans to create the 1.1 branch around October 1st.
*   Prioritize PRs with string changes in the Monday PR review meeting.
*   Developers should update the release notes.
*   Discussion about creating a release trailer video funded by the FPA.

### Configuration File Location Change
*   Default location for configuration files has changed.
*   New subdirectory "v1-1" will be created for new FreeCAD users.
*   Existing users will be prompted to migrate their files.
*   Encouragement to migrate to the new version structure.
*   Using relative paths is recommended for add-on preferences.
*   John suggests a news feed for add-on developers.
*   The migration process copies files, essentially creating a backup.
*   Symlinks are copied as symlinks on Linux.
*   Parts library and documentation can take up significant space.
*   The change is partially documented in the 1.1 release notes and a wiki page.

### Discussion on AI-Generated Code
*   MisterMakerNL submitted purely AI-generated code as he is not himself a coder.
*   Discussion about the acceptability of AI-generated code.
*   Frank is concerned about using AI code without understanding it.
*   Reqrefusion considers it a code quality issue, not an AI issue.
*   John raises concerns about licensing issues with AI-generated code.
*   Pieter emphasizes code quality and maintainability.
*   Yorik believes AI will negatively impact code quality.
*   Kacper believes understanding the code is the most important factor.
*   John notes that increased AI code submissions could overwhelm reviewers.
*   AI-generated reviews are considered useful but insufficient.
*   Consensus is that authors should understand the code they submit, and PRs must be reviewed by humans.

### Improving User Experience of VarSets
*   Peter is working on improving the user experience of VarSets.
*   Focus on moving properties between document objects.
*   This pushes the transaction system to its limits.
*   Motivation is to improve parametric design and variant parts.
*   Moving properties simplifies refactoring.
*   The transaction system was not designed for compound actions.
*   Discussion about improving the transaction system.
*   Kacper suggests nested actions for the undo stack.
*   Frank asks about the transaction system's coupling with the document object.

### Add-on News
*   John suggests calling out re-adopted and modernized add-ons.
*   Reach out to the blog team (Joe and Alex) with ideas.

## 4. Decisions Made:
*   Max will attempt to prioritize PRs with string changes in the Monday PR review meeting.
*   Yorik will draft a PR for the contributing document regarding AI-generated code.
*   Pieter's "move property" PR will be merged for user testing in the 1.2 release.

## 6. Next Meeting:
*   Sunday, 5 October 2025, 1530h UTC
