# FreeCAD Developers Meeting Minutes

1. **Meeting Information:**
   - Date: 2 March 20225
   - Location: Jit.si

2. **Agenda Items:**
    - Daylight Savings Time Reminder
    - CAD Working Group Update
    - Coin3D Performance Issues
    - Repository Naming Convention
    - Migration of Weekly Builds to Qt6
    - Archiving Weekly Builds
    - Variant Parts in FreeCAD
    - Ondsel Repository Permissions
    - New Add-on Types
    - Daylight Savings Time Reminder


3. **Discussion Points:**

    - **Daylight Savings Time Reminder:** US and Europe have different daylight savings start dates, causing potential meeting time confusion. Attendees are reminded to check calendar invites for accurate times.

    - **CAT Working Group Update:** Tomas discussed the need for a version control system tailored to FreeCAD, similar to PDM systems offered by other CAD software.  Lens was suggested as a potential base, and the need for a formal project to define requirements and evaluate existing solutions was raised.

    - **Coin3D Performance Issues:** Jackson presented profiling results showing Coin3D as a performance bottleneck. Vendoring Coin3D while retaining the option to use external versions was discussed, along with long-term plans for replacing or significantly improving it.

    - **Repository Naming Convention:**  PhoneDroid proposed eliminating the FreeCAD prefix requirement from repo names. Yorik proposed removing the "freecad-" prefix from existing repository names for clarity.  A decision was made to stop prefixing new repositories and to address existing ones on a case-by-case basis.

    - **Migration of Weekly Builds to Qt6:** Jackson proposed migrating weekly builds to Qt6 to uncover regressions. Concerns were raised about users losing access to older working versions. Archiving previous builds was discussed as a solution.

    - **Archiving Weekly Builds:**  The current system overwrites weekly build artifacts.  Jackson suggested creating individual releases for each build to enable archiving and reverting to previous versions.

    - **Variant Parts in FreeCAD:** Pieter presented his work on variant parts, demonstrating how exposed properties enable referencing parent properties without cyclic dependencies.  He outlined different implementation options and requested feedback from the community.

    - **Onshape Repository Permissions:**  Yorik requested temporary write access for former Ondsel developers to the migrated repositories to facilitate the transition and initial code cleanup.

    - **New Add-on Types:** Chris announced the addition of "bundle" and "other" add-on types in FreeCAD 1.1 Dev. "Bundle" allows defining meta add-ons with dependencies, while "other" serves as a catch-all for non-workbench add-ons.


4. **Decisions Made:**

    - Stop prefixing new repositories with "freecad-".
    - Address renaming existing repositories on a case-by-case basis.
    - Vendor Coin3D while retaining the ability to compile with an external version.
    - Grant temporary write access to former Ondsel developers for migrated repositories.
    - Standardize meeting times on Central European Time.
    - Create individual releases for each weekly build to enable archiving.
    - Migrate weekly builds to Qt6 after archiving a Qt5 version.


5. **Action Items:**

    - **Task:** Create a list of repositories and proposed new names.
    - **Responsible:** PhoneDroid

    - **Task:** Submit a Pull Request to vendor Coin3D.
    - **Responsible:** Jackson

    - **Task:** Submit a Pull Request for changes to weekly build workflows (archiving and Qt6 migration).
    - **Responsible:** Jackson

    - **Task:** Update schema file name and potentially automate release process.
    - **Responsible:** Chris

    - **Task:** Create FreeCAD Enhancement Proposal for Variant Parts.
    - **Responsible:** Pieter

6. **Next Meeting:**
    - 15 March 2025, time and location to be confirmed via the shared calendar.
