# FreeCAD Developer Meeting Minutes

1. **Meeting Information:**
   - Date: 6 April 2025
   - Time: 1730 CEST
   - Location: Online (Jit.si)

2. **Agenda Items:**
    - New FreeCAD Enhancement Proposals (FEPs)
    - API Stability/Maturity Per Module
    - Python API function deprecation
    - Google Summer of Code Introductions
    - Telemetry Add-on Launch
    - Auto-formatting Code Base
    - Auto-formatting BIM and Draft Modules
    - Weekly Builds
    - Add-on Manager Namespace
      
3. **Discussion Points:**

    - **FEPs:** kadet1090 (Kacper) presented a draft process for FreeCAD Enhancement Proposals (FEPs), modeled after processes used in other open-source projects. Discussion focused on the voting mechanism, with some members expressing skepticism about voting on technical decisions. Alternatives like consensus-building and nuanced voting systems (similar to C++) were suggested. The importance of community involvement and gathering input from various working groups was emphasized.  The benefits of FEPs for facilitating larger changes and providing a structured platform for contributions were highlighted.

    - **API Stability/Maturity:**  kadet1090 (Kacper) proposed tracking API stability per module to allow for faster integration of new features and easier modification of experimental modules. Discussion covered how to handle experimental functions within stable APIs, versioning schemes, and deprecation procedures. The use of decorators for deprecation was suggested, and the need for a simple starting point (experimental vs. stable) before implementing a full versioning system was agreed upon.

    - **Python API function deprecation:** Hyerion raised the issue of deprecating Python API functions, noting that discussions in peer comments had not reached a conclusion. kadet1090 (Kacper) suggested this could be addressed as part of the broader API stability discussion.

    - **Telemetry Add-on:** Chris Hennes announced the launch of the telemetry add-on and requested assistance with data extraction and website generation to display the collected statistics.

    - **Auto-formatting Code Base:** Chris Hennes discussed the need to auto-format remaining parts of the code base (app, GUI, parts, and part design) and sought input on the amount of advance notice required before implementing these changes. A one-month timeframe was generally agreed upon, with discussion on how to handle open PRs during the reformatting process. The need to review and potentially adjust current formatter settings, particularly the "align to parenthesis" setting, was also raised.

    - **Auto-formatting BIM and Draft:** Marcus proposed a phased approach to standardizing the code base for the BIM and Draft modules, including consistent formatting and alignment with PEP 8.  The proposal was well-received.

    - **Weekly Builds:** Jackson presented a PR to merge weekly builds into the main branch, including automated tagging and GitHub releases. Discussion focused on the tagging scheme for official and weekly releases, with a proposal to prefix official releases with "V". The granularity of weekly build tags and the handling of rebuilds were also discussed. The need for automated signing of macOS builds and the creation of a dedicated environment for weekly builds were addressed.

    - **Add-on Manager Namespace:** PhoneDroid raised concerns about the add-on manager's handling of namespaces and proposed removing the namespace check.  It was agreed that the namespace check was unnecessary and could be removed.
    
4. **Decisions Made:**
    - Implement the FEP process, with further refinement of the voting mechanism.
    - Track API stability per module, starting with a simple experimental/stable designation.
    - Remove the namespace check in the add-on manager.
    - Proceed with merging weekly builds into the main branch, using the proposed tagging scheme (weekly-YYYYMMDD) and addressing macOS signing.
    - Give one month's notice before implementing auto-formatting changes to the main code base.
    - Review and potentially adjust auto-formatter settings before applying changes to larger modules.

5. **Action Items:**
    - **Task:** Generate new certificates and create an environment for weekly builds.
    - **Responsible:** Chris Hennes, Jackson
    - **Deadline:** Within the upcoming week.
    - **Task:** Review and refine the FEP process, considering alternative voting mechanisms.
    - **Responsible:** kadet1090 (Kacper), Community
    - **Deadline:** Ongoing.
    - **Task:** Implement data extraction and website generation for telemetry add-on statistics.
    - **Responsible:**  Community member (volunteer needed)
    - **Deadline:** Open.
    - **Task:**  Address auto-formatter settings, particularly "align to parenthesis".
    - **Responsible:** kadet1090 (Kacper), Community
    - **Deadline:** Before large-scale auto-formatting changes.
    - **Task:** Create a task list for standardizing BIM and Draft modules.
    - **Responsible:** Marcus
    - **Deadline:** Ongoing.

6. **Next Meeting:**
    - In two weeks (third Saturday of April).
    - Location: Online (Jitsi)
