# FreeCAD Developer Meeting Minutes

1. **Meeting Information:**
   - **Date:** 04 May 2025
   - **Time:** 1530h UTC
   - **Location:** Jit.si

2. **Agenda Items:**
    - Removing the Drawing Module
    - Sub-module vs. Sub-tree
    - North American Meetup
    - Proposal for Larger Feature Mergers
    - Alternative Solvers for Assembly Workbench

3. **Discussion Points:**

    ## Removing the Drawing Module
    - Drawing module is not compiled by default in 1.0.
    - Discussion on whether to merge MOSFET's PR 20419 to remove the source code.
    - Yorick suggested leaving the code in a separate, archived repository or documenting its removal on the wiki.
    - Chris noted the lack of user complaints about the module's absence suggests it's safe to remove.
    - Decision to postpone removal and create a forum post to gauge user feedback.

    ## Sub-module vs. Sub-tree
    - Jackson advocated for sub-trees over sub-modules for all dependencies, citing issues with sub-modules when changing branches and merging.
    - Kacper suggested squashing commits before merging sub-trees to maintain a clean history.
    - Discussion on whether to apply this to all dependencies or just the Ondsel Solver.
    - Kacper suggested a test run with the on-solver or add-on manager before a final decision.
    - Chris proposed testing with the add-on manager due to its active development.
    - Jackson suggested using Git Sparse Checkout as an alternative for the Addon Manager specifically
    - Chris expressed concerns about Sparse Checkout's compatibility with older Addon Manager versions.
    - Decision to experiment with sub-trees on the add-on manager.
    - Decision to create a FreeCAD repository for the Ondsel Solver.

    ## North American Meetup
    - Reminder about the meetup in Springfield, Illinois, from August 7th-9th.

    ## Proposal for Larger Feature Mergers
    - Dave expressed frustration with the current PR review process, citing lengthy delays and micromanagement.
    - He proposed assigning a merge manager to larger PRs to expedite the process.
    - Discussion on the balance between code quality and development speed.
    - Kacper suggested submitting larger PRs for high-level review before or instead of splitting them into smaller, manageable chunks.
    - Discussion on the challenges of reviewing large PRs and the need for more reviewers.
    - No concrete resolution, but agreement to revisit the topic in two weeks.

    ## Alternative Solvers for Assembly Workbench
    - Jackson inquired about existing mechanisms for overriding default workbench functions with add-ons.
    - Dave described a preference-based approach used in his recent PR.
    - Kacper suggested establishing a C++ interface first, followed by C++ and Python implementations.
    - Discussion on existing solvers and potential performance issues with Python interfaces.


4. **Decisions Made:**
    - Postpone the removal of the Drawing module and create a forum post for user feedback.
    - Experiment with sub-trees for the add-on manager.
    - Create a FreeCAD repository for Ondself Ensel Solver.
    - Revisit the proposal for larger feature mergers in two weeks.

5. **Action Items:**
    - **Task:** Create a forum post about removing the Drawing module.
    - **Responsible:** Yorik
    - **Deadline:** Not specified, but implied to be before the next meeting.
    - **Task:** Implement sub-tree for the add-on manager.
    - **Responsible:** Chris Hennes, in consultation with Jackson and Kacper.
    - **Deadline:** Within the next week.
    - **Task:** Create a FreeCAD repository for the Ondsel Solver.
    - **Responsible:** Chris Hennes and Benjamin
    - **Deadline:** Not specified.

6. **Next Meeting:**
    - 17 May 2025, 1530h UTC
