# FreeCAD Developers' Meeting

21 December 2024

## Meeting Recording and Rebranding Proposal
00:05:51 - 00:09:16
Chris (@chennes) begins by confirming the meeting is being recorded and transcribed via screenapp.io.  He notes that Brad (@sliptonic) is absent and that Brad proposed rebranding the bi-weekly developer meetings to "maintainers meetings."  The current meetings are primarily informational with informal decision-making from any maintainers present.  Brad's suggestion aims to encourage more maintainers' attendance and incorporate formal decision-making processes, though the exact method of decision-making (e.g., voting) remains undefined.  Kacper expresses concern about limiting attendance to maintainers only, suggesting a mechanism to identify items requiring formal decisions, potentially using a voting system to resolve them.

## Rebranding the Maintainers' Meeting and Decision-Making Process
00:09:16 - 00:12:17
Kacper (@kadet1090) proposes an intermediate decision-making mechanism for the maintainers' meeting, suggesting that decisions reached during the meeting, even without all maintainers present, carry weight.  He proposes documenting these decisions to provide a record. Chris clarifies that the proposed rebranding isn't intended to exclude anyone from the meeting but rather to acknowledge its decision-making role.  Chris notes the existing ad-hoc nature of the FreeCAD "organization" and its decision-making processes. Yorik reiterates that maintainers' code access doesn't automatically equate to sole decision-making power; all community members have a voice. He suggests a voting system within the meeting as a way to guide decisions, acknowledging it wouldn't be formally binding but would still hold significance. Kacper suggests two needs: maintainers acting as tie-breakers when developers disagree, and a formal record of decisions made to ensure clarity and affirmation.

## Decision Making and Announcement Process for FreeCAD
00:12:17 - 00:15:36
Kacper raised the issue of officially recording decisions made in meetings, using the example of dropping support for Qt5.  He emphasized that meeting minutes alone aren't sufficient for official confirmation; affirmation from maintainers is needed. Chris then inquired about the best method for announcing such decisions. Yorik suggested using the maintainers' section of the forum to propose changes (like dropping Qt5), allowing maintainers to voice objections. Kacper proposed a more formal RFC (Request for Comments) process, similar to that used in PHP, for FreeCAD.  This process would involve creating a document outlining the pros and cons of a proposed change, followed by a vote among maintainers and developers.  Kacper suggested maintainers receive two votes each, with maintainers having the deciding vote in case of a tie. He believes this approach, while slower, would ensure a more considered and transparent decision-making process, addressing the challenge of coordinating decisions with a diverse and not always fully active group of maintainers.

## Implementing an RFC Process
00:15:42 - 00:18:01
The discussion begins with Chris asking about the first steps to implement an RFC (Request for Comments) process. Kacper suggests creating templates to explain the process and voting mechanisms, drawing inspiration from other projects like View's three-year-old RFC process.  Chris agrees that reinventing the wheel is unnecessary and asks Kacper to prepare a document for the next developer meeting, acknowledging there's no rush. Kacper commits to researching open-source projects and creating a proposal, aiming for a presentation within a month. Yorik suggests using the existing FreeCAD developer meeting repository, which already contains agendas and minutes, potentially renaming it if necessary. Kacper agrees that a concrete proposal is needed before discussing renaming.

## Maintaining Add-on Compatibility After 1.0
00:18:06 - 00:18:53
The conversation shifts to maintaining compatibility with add-ons after version 1.0, an agenda item led by Kacper. Pieter mentions an old, inactive repository called "FreeCAD enhancement proposals" within the FreeCAD organization, suggesting its potential relevance, though Chris notes its lack of traction.

## Addressing Backwards Compatibility Issues in FreeCAD
00:18:56 - 00:22:15
Kacper raises concerns about backwards compatibility issues encountered while enhancing the transfer dialogue in FreeCAD.  He points out unused code, such as the `dragger` properties exposed only for Assembly3.  He cites the recent change in alpha/transparency as another example.  Kacper suggests that simply relying on the RFC process for every breaking change is not feasible.  Instead, he proposes a new process where every pull request (PR) containing breaking changes must acknowledge this in its description, making it visible during PR Review meetings.  This allows for a case-by-case discussion on how to handle the change, such as determining if the removed feature can be implemented as an add-on, or if the core code needs to be reworked to allow for re-implementation in add-ons.  He concludes by seeking feedback on this proposed process.

## Addressing Legacy Code and Backwards Compatibility
00:22:30 - 00:25:44
Yorik highlights the presence of legacy code ("realthunder stuff") resulting from large, poorly integrated merge requests in the past.  This code, mixing features and making untangling difficult, still exists.  Yorik questions the concept of "private" and "public" APIs in an open-source context, where everything is theoretically public.  Kacper agrees on the need to formalize a backwards compatibility policy.  He uses the analogy that long-standing bugs become features, suggesting a mechanism to designate elements as covered by backwards compatibility (and thus protected from change without good reason) versus those that are exposed but not guaranteed to remain stable.  Kacper proposes marking API elements as either "public" (covered by the policy) or "internal" (use at your own risk, subject to change).  This would be documented in code comments and contribute to better versioning.  Yorik agrees that a backwards compatibility policy is crucial.

## API Deprecation and Compatibility Policy
00:25:52 - 00:29:35
This segment discusses establishing a policy for handling API deprecation and maintaining backward compatibility in FreeCAD.  The conversation begins with a suggestion to include communication processes regarding 2.0 or other releases in the policy. Kacper proposes deprecating features for a year or a development cycle, allowing sufficient time for add-on updates.  Pieter suggests including a "breaking change" tag for easier identification. Chris inquires about adding deprecation tags directly to the existing XML (*Py.xml) file used for API documentation generation. Kacper argues against automatically scanning the entire source code to identify potential breaking changes, deeming it too complex and impractical. Instead, Kacper proposes a policy requiring developers to document any backward compatibility-breaking changes they introduce, suggesting a process where developers tag such changes.  Pieter suggests providing a conversion script for older documents with each release.  The discussion concludes with Adrian's interjection, indicating a shift in focus.

## Add-on API Migration and Compatibility
00:29:38 - 00:33:23
This segment focuses on ensuring a smooth migration for add-on developers to a new API.  Adrian emphasizes the need for a clear and straightforward migration path for developers. Kacper suggests that when making breaking changes, authors should provide examples of how to achieve the same functionality using the new API.  They propose requiring authors to provide examples of the old API's usage via a GitHub search, allowing for a better understanding of its impact and potential replacement solutions. Yorik raises concerns about whether authors would always know how their APIs are used.  Kacper clarifies that a GitHub search, while not exhaustive, is often sufficient to identify usage patterns.  Yorik and Adrian suggest checking the add-on manager for a list of add-ons using the API, but Kacper points out the impracticality of downloading all add-ons for testing.  Chris summarizes the discussion, emphasizing the importance of maintainers being aware of the changes during the PR review process.

## Improving PR Descriptions and Contributing Guidelines
00:33:23 - 00:34:42
Chris notes the difficulty of quickly graphing data without readily available tools. Kacper suggests that if PRs include tags and detailed descriptions of changes, this would be sufficient.  They agree that all PRs should be marked with timestamps and clear descriptions of changes. Chris proposes adding a line to the `contributing.md` document requiring explicit mention of public API changes in PRs. Kacper agrees to create a PR for this change within the week, with no rush. The discussion then transitions to the next agenda item.

## Adding qDebug Stream Insertion Operator (<<) for Base Classes
00:34:42 - 00:36:33
Kacper explains the issue of base classes (like Vector3D or Matrix) lacking the ability to dump values to the cOndsele for debugging.  Currently, developers need to manually implement print methods.  Kacper proposes adding support for the Qt debugging stream operator, or alternatively, using the fmt library or C++20 standard for string formatting and creating a bridge for the Qt framework. This would allow using cOndsele logging and significantly improve the debugging process.  He mentions that a similar solution was already implemented for a placement class and could be extracted and reused.

## Debugging Enhancements and Stream Insertion Operator
00:36:41 - 00:40:19
Chris proposes adding support for `std::format` and stream insertion operators to base classes like `matrix` to improve the debugging process.  Kacper explains that `QDbug` is preferable for debugging QT-related issues because it provides widget-specific information, but suggests creating two templates: one reusing the `QDebug` operator and another as a basic string format wrapper.  This would allow flexibility depending on the debugging needs.  The group agrees to add the support, with Kacper volunteering to create a PR, but encouraging others to contribute if they finish first. Yorik raises a concern about potential slowdowns from adding these features to all base classes, suggesting performance testing before and after implementation.  Kacper clarifies that these methods are primarily for debugging and should be removed from production code, with exceptions for tracing and debugging tools.  Yorik agrees, suggesting that any internal preparation for printing information shouldn't significantly impact performance.

## Potential Performance Impact of Development Practices
00:40:20 - 00:41:51
The discussion centers on a potential performance slowdown related to development practices.  Yorik notes that simple operations contribute positively, while Chris mentions "underfit." Pieter clarifies that the slowdown, if any, primarily affects development, and logging (e.g., using FC log) might introduce minor performance overhead.  He points out that Python is significantly slower than the discussed operation. Chris suggests developers might pre-optimize code for debugging, but Kacper advises against this, suggesting code review as a sufficient solution.  The group concludes this discussion and moves to the next agenda item.

## Analysis and Analytics of FreeCAD Internet Properties
00:41:51 - 00:43:56
This chapter focuses on analyzing FreeCAD's web properties to understand user behavior. reqrefusion highlights the significant disparity between active and inactive users (approximately 100 times more inactive users).  Analyzing web properties is crucial for understanding the larger audience and how they interact with FreeCAD.  reqrefusion emphasizes the difficulty and cost of manual analysis, proposing automated methods to reach a larger audience cost-effectively.  The discussion touches upon using cOndseles to prove website ownership to search engines and manage redirects.

## Website Analytics and Tracking Tools
00:43:56 - 00:46:22
reqrefusion discusses the use of analytics tools for their website, highlighting the surprising results from search engines.  They detail the use of Jetpack and Analyze, emphasizing that Analyze tracks all server communication, including anonymous logins, for internet security.  The discussion covers the risks of cookies and their use in tracking user payment information and internet behavior for understanding user preferences.  Google Analytics is mentioned as a tracking tool, contrasted with Mathoma, a GDPR-compliant, open-source alternative used by the European Commission and UN, which analyzes data solely through server logs.  reqrefusion also mentions that Analyze is JavaScript-based and that other tools, like Blender, use similar principles but have compatibility issues.

## Data Usage and Project Goals
00:46:32 - 00:47:51
WandererFan clarifies the purpose of data gathering, questioning the objective of collecting user data. reqrefusion explains that the data will be used to understand how people use the website, including search terms, to improve SEO and attract more users. Yorik objects, emphasizing that as a free software project, tracking users is undesirable and contradicts the project's non-commercial nature.

## Website Analytics and User Tracking
00:47:52 - 00:51:19
Yorik initiated a discussion on website analytics, emphasizing the importance of user privacy and avoiding intrusive tracking methods like Google Analytics.  He suggested using internal server analytics to track PHP page calls, which wouldn't compromise user privacy.  The team discussed the potential benefits of such data, focusing on understanding website usage patterns (page access frequency, popular pages) for the website and wiki.  Yorik questioned the necessity of collecting more detailed information.  Kacper then proposed that analytics could help understand the user base, allowing for better targeting of software development efforts and informing the design working group about resolution usage in Ricat.  He also advocated for optional, add-on telemetry in FreeCAD itself, previously discussed and agreed upon as an opt-in feature.  Finally, Kacper clarified that using Google Search COndsele is not user tracking but rather a tool to improve search engine indexing and reach a wider audience for FreeCAD.

## Utilizing Commercial Products for Information Dissemination and Website Analytics
00:51:20 - 00:54:47
Kacper suggests using commercial products to improve information dissemination, especially given the limitations of Google Search COndsele in understanding website indexing issues. Yorik agrees, highlighting the Search COndsele's usefulness for website owners, providing data without user involvement. Kacper emphasizes the need for targeted analytics, focusing on useful data like resolutions, and proposes submitting only relevant data to the server. An attendee mentions using Matomo, a powerful tool, but notes its drawbacks and the importance of defining the extent of tracking.  He points out that while Matomo provided useful data in the past, its effectiveness depends on having clear questions about user behavior.  The developers present concur that defining specific questions (like identifying the most used resolutions) before choosing an analytics technique is crucial.

## GDPR Compliance and Data Collection
00:55:03 - 00:58:50
The discussion centers on GDPR compliance concerning data collection methods. reqrefusion inquires about the implications of GDPR on data information. Yorik expresses uncertainty about their GDPR compliance, particularly if they implement certain measures.  He notes that if no cookies or personal information is collected, GDPR compliance might not be an issue. Kacper clarifies that a robust privacy policy allows flexibility, citing Google's practices.  Kacper explains that if only essential cookies are used, a cookie banner isn't legally required.  The conversation shifts to the potential use of cookies or other platforms for data collection, with Kacper suggesting that data from the website (though not perfectly accurate) could provide insights into user location and inform translation strategies.  However, a strong justification for implementing such a solution is emphasized.  reqrefusion proposes alternative tracking methods like cookie-free JavaScript trackers, server logs, or PHP trackers, highlighting that the need for specific data often becomes apparent only after analysis.  The chapter concludes with Chris asking how to proceed given the various options.

## Action Items and Next Steps Regarding User Data and Analytics
00:58:50 - 01:01:00
The discussion centers on how to proceed with analyzing user data.  reqrefusion suggests prioritizing server logs and PHP tracker data, noting JavaScript's speed but limited usefulness.  Kacper proposes adding user data to a cOndsele that doesn't track user identities to reach more people.  He also suggests creating a list of helpful user data points for discussion in the next meeting. Chris suggests compiling a list of data requests from server logs, offering to access the data or ask Kurt for assistance. Pieter proposes discussing this openly on the user forum to gather feedback and collaboratively create the data request list.  WandererFan agrees with this approach.  The overall conclusion is to proceed with server log analysis and to involve the user community in defining the data needs.

## CAD Working Group Updates and Future Discussion
01:01:01 - 01:02:26
Chris moves on to CAD working group topics, noting Pierre's absence.  The agenda includes discussions on a new file format and cosmetic threads.  Kacper explains that Pierre's points were to review the provided topics and discuss them more productively in future meetings.  The chapter concludes with a plan to defer detailed discussion of the CAD working group topics to a subsequent meeting.

## Review of Cosmetic Threads Features and File Format
01:02:26 - 01:03:04
Kacper requested feedback on cosmetic threads features and file format.  He suggested reviewing proposals before the next meeting for a more productive discussion. Chris confirmed this would likely be the January 5th meeting, noting this as an FYI and item six for everyone to review.

## Cancellation of Friday PR Review Meeting
01:03:06 - 01:05:30
Chris proposed dropping the Friday PR review meeting due to low attendance and difficulty in maintaining it.  The team had successfully caught up on all open PRs thanks to the additional meeting, merging approximately 75-80 PRs per week during the period with two meetings.  The consensus was to cancel the Friday meeting, reverting to the Monday meeting only.  Yorik was tasked with removing the Friday meeting from the calendar. Pieter confirmed the Friday meeting's effectiveness in catching up on PRs, and Chris acknowledged the high volume of work completed during the period with two meetings, despite some minor issues.  The team agreed that any remaining PRs could be handled during the weekly Monday meeting, and that maintainers would continue to review PRs throughout the week.

## FPA Grant Proof of Concept and Exposing Properties
01:05:39 - 01:09:34
This chapter discusses Pieter's proof of concept work on an FPA grant, focusing on resolving issues with hidden references and dependencies in document objects.  Pieter explains that his proof of concept introduces a new feature to eliminate hidden references by analyzing dependencies and creating a true Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) using a single dependency checking mechanism (instead of the existing two: boost signals and document.cpp).  The solution involves "exposing" properties, preventing them from triggering recomputation of their objects, thus resolving cyclic dependencies.  Kacper summarizes Pieter's explanation, clarifying that exposed properties can be referenced without forcing recomputation, effectively treating them as external to the document object.  The discussion centers on the feasibility and implementation direction of this feature, with Pieter seeking guidance on the best decision-making process, possibly through an RFC.

## Dependency Cycle Handling in Document Objects
01:09:34 - 01:13:23
Pieter presents two implementation options for handling dependency cycles in document objects.  The first, used in a proof of concept, involves adding checks to the existing dependency cycle code to identify exposed properties and handle them accordingly.  This approach is considered less robust for a full implementation but offers a quicker solution. The second option proposes re-implementing the Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) where a node represents a document object and its properties, providing finer-grained control and optimization potential for dependency checking and recomputation performance.  Pieter details the benefits and drawbacks of both in a forum topic and asks whether the feature is even desired, suggesting that hidden references might suffice.  Kacper agrees that the more fine-grained solution is preferable due to its usefulness in debugging, suggesting that the "exposed flag" solution (the first option) could be implemented as a temporary fix, addressing immediate issues while the more comprehensive solution is developed later.  Kacper argues that the exposed flag only masks the problem rather than solving it completely.

## Exploring Alternative Solutions
01:13:23 - 01:15:11
Pieter proposes alternative solutions, including allowing cycles to simplify the process.  He suggests finding a stable set of changes through iterative recomputation until stability is reached, referencing a process akin to reaching a steady state. Yorik clarifies the need for a solution that either breaks symmetry or maintains consistency with circular logic. Pieter acknowledges the current high cost of checking for stability but suggests exploring ways to make this check cheaper, enabling the allowance of cycles without relying on a deck.

## Discussion on Exposed Properties and User Interaction
01:15:13 - 01:17:11
WandererFan questions whether the exposed property is set by the user or developer. Pieter clarifies that it's set by the user in a parent object, but WandererFan points out the user might not know if a property triggers recomputation.  He suggests this is a workaround, similar to the hidden reference workaround. Pieter argues that the exposed property serves another purpose: communicating usable properties to users of the document object, allowing for referencing from dependent objects.  WandererFan proposes a solution involving a function to automatically determine if a property needs recomputation, using an object's own changed property signal as an example.  Pieter agrees and begins to give an example.

## Fine-Grained Dependency Graph and Performance Improvements
01:17:19 - 01:18:26
Pieter discusses the inefficiency of the current document object group system, where changing a dependent object triggers changes in the entire group, even if unnecessary. This is particularly problematic for groups containing Python code, leading to expensive recomputations.  He proposes a more fine-grained dependency graph to improve performance by adding heuristics to avoid unnecessary recomputations.  This would provide information about what triggers a recompute, currently unavailable.  A question is raised about how this differs from existing output status flags.

## Clarification on Exposed Flags and Output Properties
01:18:26 - 01:19:15
Jonas (@jbaehr) asks about the difference between the proposed "exposed" flag and the existing output status flags on properties. Pieter clarifies that output properties are read-only and provide information to the user, while the exposed flags are meant to be changed, giving control over the hierarchy underlying the document object.  The difference is further explained as needing to be checked in a forum topic.

## Addressing Spreadsheet Object Handling and Fine-Grained Approach
01:19:16 - 01:20:57
Jonas raises a question about the fine-grained approach's ability to handle objects acting as both input and output, using a spreadsheet object as an example.  Currently, workarounds involve using two spreadsheets (one for input, one for output). Pieter explains that his approach should allow for this in principle, though the current proof of concept's ability to handle this isn't confirmed. The discussion concludes with the confirmation that the dependency tracking is now down to the property level, not the object level, and a suggestion to rename "exposed" to something like "output" to avoid confusion.  The forum topic is again referenced for further details and visualizations.

## Clarifying "Exposed Property" Terminology
01:20:57 - 01:21:37
Kacper clarified the meaning of "exposed property," stating that it refers to an output that doesn't trigger computation. Pieter suggested finding a better name for this concept.  Chris then transitioned the discussion to the next agenda item.

## C++ and Python API Documentation Discussion
01:21:37 - 01:24:56
Pieter discussed feedback received on a forum regarding the C++ API documentation.  He noted feedback from Kacper, Benjamin, and Worser, highlighting differing opinions on its usefulness. While Pieter found the documentation helpful, others felt it obfuscated the code and presented maintenance challenges.  The discussion then focused on the value of the documentation to other developers and maintainers. Kacper clarified that the issue wasn't the documentation's inherent usefulness but rather the resource costs associated with its maintenance. Pieter mentioned an FPA grant focused on documenting the app package, but suggested that a more comprehensive overview of system functionalities (like dependency checking and the property system) might be more beneficial.  A final participant agreed that a high-level conceptual overview would be highly beneficial.

## Improving Documentation: Broad Overview and Specific Needs
01:24:56 - 01:26:14
Jonas suggests a broad overview of the system's architecture, including core components, dependencies between the app and OCCT/GUI, and how properties and dependencies relate to document objects and recomputation.  This would benefit users of C++, Python extensions, and macros.  The speaker also highlights the need for improved doxygen comments in the API, particularly for flags and their meanings, acknowledging the challenge of synchronizing C++ and Python documentation for the same behavior.

## Concerns Regarding Excessive Comments and Refactoring
01:26:14 - 01:28:35
Pieter notes a contrasting viewpoint from the forum, expressing concern about adding comments that only describe the "how" or "what," suggesting that well-named code should make this clear.  A preference for explaining the "why" is mentioned, but Pieter argues that renaming (refactoring) is a larger undertaking. Shai explains Worser's perspective:  that excessive in-code comments make the code harder to read and that code should be self-explanatory.  However, Shai counters that in practice, comments within the Python cOndsele's autocompletion are very helpful for understanding function behavior, advocating for adding comments.

## Code Commenting and Maintainability
01:28:35 - 01:32:30
Shai expresses concerns about code maintainability due to excessive comments, suggesting that comments near functions improve readability.  Shai mentions a colleague's editor plugin that removes comments, implying that comments aren't inherently problematic.  However, Shai emphasizes the need for a general code overview to understand the architecture, particularly within the C++ section. Kacper agrees that commenting API functions is crucial, recommending mandatory comments for all pull requests (PRs), focusing on the `app` and `base` namespaces due to their stability. Kacper acknowledges that forcing comments can lead to unhelpful rephrasing of code, advocating instead for targeted comments explaining edge cases.  Kacper suggests adding comments requesting explanations for unclear methods during code reviews, a practice already implemented successfully. Yorik agrees with Kacper and Shai, highlighting the benefit of increased commenting, especially given the involvement of non-professional contributors.

## Improving Code Maintainability and Documentation
01:32:30 - 01:35:29
Kacper emphasizes the importance of comprehensive commenting in FreeCAD's codebase for improved maintainability and onboarding of new contributors.  He suggests that well-commented code encourages developers to fix issues directly within the code, enhancing the overall maintainability.  Pieter adds that Python programmers, even without C++ expertise, could benefit from clear code documentation.  Jonas highlights the need for more descriptive commit messages, emphasizing the "why" behind code changes rather than just the "what." and suggests a review of https://cbea.ms/git-commit/.  They advocate for including the motivation for changes, especially when reviewing older code.  A reference to Chris Beams' document on effective commit messages is provided as a best practice. Chris agrees, acknowledging the risk of outdated doxygen comments but suggesting that thorough code reviews can mitigate this. He also points out that the potential clutter of doxygen comments can be easily managed by IDE features that allow for collapsing them.  He concludes that mandating doxygen comments is unlikely to be feasible.

## Documentation String Requirements
01:35:29 - 01:37:38
Chris suggests that documentation strings are useful, especially when the method's usage requires examples.  He notes that such cases can be caught during code reviews. Ajinkya adds that comments might be necessary to bridge the gap between coding expertise and mathematical understanding, particularly in areas like sketcher solvers where complex math is involved.  He points out that the target audience for the code (e.g., someone with math expertise vs. engineering expertise) might influence the need for extensive comments.  He suggests that while a standard might direct users to external resources, some communication within the code itself would still be beneficial.  Chris concludes this discussion segment.

## Moving Ondsel Repositories to FreeCAD
01:37:38 - 01:39:28
Pieter announces that while Ondsel has shut down, their code will live on thanks to open-sourcing efforts and a private donor interested in continuing the Ondsel server software, particularly for open-source hardware.  He mentions an LNET grant to continue work on the lens add-on.  The goal is to maintain a community version of the Ondsel lens software.  Pieter proposes moving the repositories to the FreeCAD repository and solicits feedback, noting he's open to suggestions. Chris asks if the Ondsel Solver is intended to be included in this move.

## Repository Organization and Maintenance
01:39:28 - 01:40:47
Pieter clarifies his focus on the Ondsel server and add-ons, suggesting Pierre propose the move for the Ondsel solver and assembly workbench. Chris agrees, with no objections anticipated.  The discussion also touches upon moving the solver, and WandererFan suggests inviting Dr. Aik-Siong Koh as co-maintainer for the solver and granting them access to facilitate continued collaboration. Yorik supports this, suggesting it as a way to keep the co-maintainer involved.

## Developer Experience Improvements
01:40:49 - 01:42:57
Chris introduces item 11: discussion on developer experience improvements proposed by Jackson (@oursland). Jackson presents a series of objectives for 2025.  Three objectives—Pixi build functionality integration (with documentation needed), application packaging (Linux AppImage, macOS dmg, Windows exe; PRs in progress), and automated benchmarking in continuous integration to track performance regressions—have been previously discussed.  New objectives requiring further discussion include improvements to the often-difficult code review process, particularly when reviewers lack expertise in the specific code.

## Introduction to Refactor Raptor AI Code Review System
01:42:57 - 01:44:34
Jackson introduced Refactor Raptor, an AI-assisted code review system developed by his former colleagues and funded by SBIR grants.  The system integrates with GitLab, automatically reviewing pull requests line by line, identifying issues, suggesting solutions, and adding comments.  A demo video showcasing the system's ability to detect a previously introduced and later fixed regression in the FreeCAD code was mentioned.  Jackson also noted that an API is planned to allow for team interaction and evaluation of the system's suitability for integration into their CI/PR pipeline.  The discussion then shifted to crash reporting.

## Crash Reporting and Debugging Tools
01:44:34 - 01:46:01
Currently, crashes are manually recorded as issues.  Jackson discussed the benefits of integrating crashpad (from Chromium) which automatically creates minified backtraces and dumps, uploading them to a server for easier issue association.  This would provide more detailed information than relying on manual user reports.  He shared his experience using FreeCAD and encountering exceptions within the Ondsel solver.  By integrating cpptrace, he identified an out-of-bounds access in an STL vector, highlighting the value of automated debugging tools in pinpointing the root cause of errors more effectively than simple failure messages.  An issue was created to address this specific problem, and the possibility of integrating such tools more broadly was raised.

## Improving Debug Builds and Performance
01:46:01 - 01:47:53
Jackson suggests improvements for debug builds, focusing on more formal exception handling for easier review.  He also highlights significant performance issues, particularly with the assembly system's picker, experiencing delays of 10-15 seconds in user interaction.  He proposes adding system profiling with flame graphs.  Jonas adds another item: providing a Docker image from regular builds for downstream projects using FreeCAD's workbench, enabling automated unit testing against various FreeCAD versions without requiring compilation in CI. Jackson agrees, noting an existing discussion about providing packaged versions for each PR as downloadable artifacts for easier testing.  Jonas confirms the value of both a Docker image and a downloadable item for human testers.

## Handling Crash Reports
01:48:20 - 01:49:27
Yorik raises concerns about implementing crash reporting without a plan to act on the reports, suggesting it's pointless if reports are ignored. Jackson explains that crash reports are typically stored in a database, allowing for analysis to identify common crash locations within the code, even without the full context or system artifacts.  This helps pinpoint areas prone to causing negative user experiences.

## Code Review Tool Discussion
01:49:28 - 01:51:23
Jackson discussed a new code review tool that provides functionality similar to linters but offers a three-way merge system with comments and tooltips explaining changes, highlighting issues like memory leaks or insufficient comments.  He plans to share a video demonstrating the tool and suggested posting it on the forums or Discord.  Chris expressed interest in the tool and its potential benefits for code review within the CI process.

## Crash Report Tool Output Options
01:51:23 - 01:52:26
Vincenzo (@calligarov) suggested exploring the possibility of the proposed crash report tool generating a file output instead of directly uploading to a server. This file could then be attached to issue reports, such as those on GitHub. Jackson acknowledged the suggestion and stated that while he hasn't explored this functionality yet, further investigation is warranted.
