# FreeCAD Developer Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information
*   **Date:** Sunday, June 1st, 2025
*   **Time:** 1530 UTC
*   **Location:** Online

## 2. Agenda Items
1.  Welcome and Introductions
2.  Discuss possible license issue with bundling IFC OpenShell
3.  KiCon wrap-up from Jackson Oursland
4.  PubSub messaging system
5.  OpenCASCADE Liaison update from Pieter Hijma
6.  Discussion about the PR review/merge process

## 3. Discussion Points

### Agenda Item 3: KiCon Wrap-up
*   Jackson Oursland (@oursland) attended KiCon 2025 North America in San Diego.
*   Two more KiCons are planned for the year in Europe (Germany) and China.
*   Many KiCAD users also use FreeCAD.
*   Jackson spoke with users, finding most use FreeCAD for enclosures or testing apparatus, not advanced workflows like thermal analysis or EMI simulations using the FEM workbench.
*   A presentation on KiConnect was notable. KiConnect imports boards from KiCAD into FreeCAD via a networking mechanism.
*   KiCAD 9 added a messaging API (REST and NanoMessage) that KiConnect uses to notify FreeCAD of changes,.
*   The developer of KiConnect was invited to the FreeCAD North American meetup.

### Agenda Item 4: PubSub messaging system
*   Discussion on the potential benefit of a standard API for messaging, similar to KiCAD's, for internal and external interfacing.
*   Examples include KiConnect and mnesarco's FreeCAD channels.
*   Brad noted potential benefits in CAM for linking to machine tools (e.g., using MQTT) to visualize milling over the toolpath,.
*   Benjamin supports the idea, suggesting looking at how other projects implement it and its potential for creating 3D components for KiCAD.
*   Joao questioned if Python scripting could achieve similar results, but noted the need for a callback system for notifications. Implementing a PubSub for all public Python APIs would be a large task. Use cases need to be defined.
*   Benjamin suggested needing multiple threads for such a system.
*   Jackson proposed creating a FreeCAD Enhancement Proposal (FEP) to consolidate ideas.
*   Benjamin suggested having a use case would help create a specification.
*   Jackson believes KiConnect and mnesarco's system provide two compelling use cases.

### Agenda Item 5: OpenCASCADE Liaison update
*   Pieter reported on discussions with OCCT (Open Cascade Technology).
*   OCCT and FreeCAD/FPA are interested in collaboration.
*   A prominent OCCT project is a data exchange wrapper for various file formats.
*   This wrapper could give FreeCAD users access to more formats, potentially including proprietary ones with a fee.
*   Collaboration requires developers to modify FreeCAD to support this.
*   Two potential methods:
    *   Wrap the current OCCT file reading/writing, allowing loading of proprietary DLLs. Drawback: requires binary compatibility.
    *   Use a separate application that links to OCCT and streams files to FreeCAD (possibly via XPF, which FreeCAD might support),. This offers a looser interface.
*   Pieter sought developer interest and FPA support (e.g., grants) for this.
*   Benjamin expressed interest, noting the challenge of proprietary formats in open source but supporting the idea, perhaps as an add-on. Binary compatibility is a concern.
*   Chris asked about the level of effort required (hours) for FPA support consideration.
*   Pieter is not yet clear on the effort but thinks streaming is the most promising approach as it keeps open source and proprietary parts separate,.
*   OCCT may also release open source data formats.
*   The streaming approach could involve an add-on (potentially open source LGPL) that uses proprietary format libraries chosen by the user,.
*   It's unclear if OCCT would develop the add-on or expect the FreeCAD community to.
*   Chris confirmed a FreeCAD add-on can load proprietary DLLs and be licensed differently (even closed source).
*   The list of commercially supported formats (Parasolid, DXF, FBX) is interesting for professional users.
*   Yorik thinks it's a valuable addition and the FPA could fund it, but more definition is needed to estimate cost. He noted DWG is missing from the list.
*   Chris pointed out DWG is listed as a possible extra format on the linked page.
*   Pieter can ask OCCT about DWG and XML step files. He believes support for XML step files might allow discussion of licensing terms with OCCT.
*   Yorik is not interested in coding it.
*   Chris is interested due to past professional experience with file format transitions.
*   Yorik described the streaming plugin's potential simplicity from the FreeCAD side.
*   Pieter explained the DE wrapper uses a configuration file to load the correct DLL and perform conversion, returning a shape or X-Caf object.
*   Yorik raised questions about how users would obtain DLLs, platform support, and ease of access.
*   Pieter believes OCCT is finishing technical development and focusing on plugins, looking for FreeCAD support next.

### Agenda Item 2: Discuss possible license issue with bundling IFC OpenShell
*   Yorik raised concern that IFC OpenShell, shipped with FreeCAD packages, is LGPL3. This might require FreeCAD packages (AppImage, installer) to become LGPL3.
*   Benjamin clarified that bundling LGPL3 libraries with LGPL2 code is generally fine as long as the LGPL3 source code is not copied into the LGPL2 code.
*   The issue is more complex with Apache 2.0 license compatibility with LGPL2. Apache 2.0 is compatible with GPL3, but not explicitly GPL2.
*   FreeCAD uses Apache 2.0 libraries (XML reader, Gordon Surfaces).
*   Kacper suggested relicensing FreeCAD to LGPL3 would resolve Apache 2.0 compatibility issues due to LGPL3's compatible patent clause.
*   Pieter questioned if LGPL2 or later license covers this.
*   Benjamin clarified that "or later" allows users to apply a later license version, but doesn't automatically relicense the code itself.
*   Jackson stated that since FreeCAD doesn't modify the LGPL3 code and distributes unmodified pre-compiled binaries, it doesn't alter FreeCAD's overall licensing,.
*   Jackson linked an EU compatibility website showing Apache 2.0 as compatible with LGPL2 as an inbound license.
*   Jackson is investigating automatically generating a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) with Conda-Forge/Pixi to track licenses.
*   Yorik stated relicensing FreeCAD (LGPL2+) to LGPL3 is practically impossible due to the large number of copyright holders, many of whom are unreachable.
*   Yorik suggested the bundles are distributing separate software with their own licenses, and FreeCAD's license doesn't necessarily apply to the bundle itself. Transparency about bundle contents and licenses is needed.
*   Turan (@reqrefusion) suggested consulting lawyers. Chris noted the FPA could hire an attorney but prefers not to if possible.
*   Jackson agreed generating a proper SBOM is needed, updating the existing packages.txt to include licenses and source locations.
*   Chris noted the need for an internal BOM to track licenses of small code snippets within the FreeCAD codebase itself.
*   Benjamin suggested moving code under other licenses to a third-party location to simplify tracking. He believes the open source community is generally forgiving as long as efforts are made.
*   Chris questioned the feasibility of extracting small code snippets into separate locations.
*   Benjamin mentioned using SPDX tags within files to indicate licenses.

### Agenda Item 6: Discussion about the PR review slash merge process
*   Chris introduced the topic, referencing the "people before code" philosophy and the history of FreeCAD's PR process (strict -> fast -> slower/thorough).
*   Concern that current thorough reviews might be too slow and causing developers to leave.
*   Discussion with Pieter raised the idea of trusting developers more and merging code that isn't perfect, relying on the developer to fix issues later.
*   The goal is to refine the process and decide how much review is appropriate.
*   Pieter suggested merging PRs first, then doing code review and creating issues assigned to the author for fixes. Benefits include developers feeling welcomed and trusted.
*   Yorik found the merge-first approach complicated for tracking fixes later with current tools. He agreed the current process is too bureaucratic and losing people, but some bureaucracy is unavoidable in a large project with limited maintainers.
*   Benjamin sees PRs as discussion points, not blockers. He believes discussions shouldn't necessarily block merging, especially for experienced developers.
*   Chris noted that PRs *are* often treated as blocking in practice, and newcomers may not understand who is providing feedback or its importance. Clearer communication and process definition are needed.
*   Pieter reiterated the merge-first idea and noted the temporal aspect of reviews impacting developers like Dave. He mentioned the "contract before implementation" idea from Pieter Hintjens' talk.
*   Kacper distinguished between truly blocking issues (e.g., removing necessary code, scope creep) and non-blocking issues (e.g., coding style, minor implementation details).
*   He feels merging first and creating issues doesn't work based on experience. Assigning issues might help.
*   Reviewing "contracts" (APIs) is critical as changes are hard later, unlike implementation details.
*   Nitpicking on coding style is important for code consistency and readability, even if minor.
*   Code reviews are valuable for teaching developers about the codebase and idiomatic FreeCAD practices.
*   Kacper feels the problem is somewhat exaggerated; most people take feedback well. Issues arise from too many reviewers or perceived nitpicking.
*   Yorik clarified that newcomers often appreciate code review; the problem is more with more experienced developers. He noted the difficulty of defining "contracts" in a decentralized open source project.
*   Benjamin suggested reviewers state their intent (e.g., "needs to be fixed," "would like to discuss") and use GitHub's "changes required" feature. He also suggested offering to fix minor coding convention issues for the author.
*   Pieter noted that strict code quality standards are hard to apply across the whole community, and extensive reviews/rebasing can be burdensome.
*   Jackson provided context on Dave's materials PR, which took over two years due to merge conflicts, extensive reviews, and requests to split/merge PRs. This highlights the burden of bureaucracy.
*   Brad suggested there are multiple problems: onboarding new long-term contributors, accepting one-off feature contributions, and supporting existing maintainers. Different processes might be needed for different types of contributions/contributors.
*   Joao clarified his comment about consulting the working group was about discussing interfaces before implementation *in the future*, not as a criticism of the current PR.
*   Kacper agreed splitting PRs isn't always beneficial. He suggested encouraging early feedback and having one primary reviewer per PR.
*   Benjamin emphasized optimizing for long-term maintainability. He stressed clearer communication in reviews, assuming the reader may not understand the intent.
*   @wandererfan noted that in the FreeCAD workflow, code review is very late in the process and often mixes code review with architectural/design review. He highlighted the conflict between contributor goals (fix problem) and reviewer goals (nicer code). He also described the burden on developers dealing with review feedback on multiple PRs that they have to context-switch between.
*   Yorik suggested identifying problems earlier and tagging PRs at M3 meetings if they have significant issues requiring a roadmap.
*   Benjamin recalled Werner's practice of fixing minor issues and renaming things directly in PRs before merging, which helped authors learn and reduced bouncing back. He suggested this could be a good option for nitpicking.

## 4. Decisions Made
*   Jackson will create a FreeCAD Enhancement Proposal (FEP) for the PubSub messaging system.
*   The team will investigate generating a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) for FreeCAD bundles.

## 5. Action Items
*   **Task:** Create FEP for PubSub messaging system.
    *   **Person Responsible:** Jackson Oursland
*   **Task:** Ask OCCT about their plans for DWG format support in the data exchange wrapper.
    *   **Person Responsible:** Pieter Hijma
*   **Task:** Investigate tools and methods for automatically generating a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) for FreeCAD bundles, including licenses and source locations.
    *   **Person Responsible:** Jackson Oursland
*   **Task:** Maintainers to continue discussing and refining PR review workflows.
    *   **Person Responsible:** FreeCAD Maintainers

## 6. Next Meeting
*   Saturday, 21 June 2025, 1530h UTC, Jit.si
