## 5 November 2023

Attendees: Sliptonic, Yorik, Ajinkya, CalligaroV, OpenBrain, Roy, Alex, kadet, robotista, Adrian, Dave Carter, Wandererfan

Secretary: Yorik

DISCUSS

1. Product owners  
   1. We need people with holistic vision but not necessarily developers  
2. 0.21.2 release  
   1. Timing  
      1. Tentative 12 November 2023  
   2. Hunt for backport commits  
3. Grants  
   1. We will likely need more reviewers, we only got 2 or 3 (depending on where Abdullah is with this)  
4. Alain Picquot ([alain.picquot@free.fr](mailto:alain.picquot@free.fr) / France) .. Could you reintegrate the workbench image? Not easy to use calibrate to rescale.. Could be only a note below “calibrate” : “add the reference line clicking on the image, then change the length line as wanted”. Thanks.  
   1. Not clear what the problem being expressed is.  New functionality is superior to old image WB and all features are still accessible.    
   2. Can OP clarify the problem or open an issue in the tracker describing the problem.  
   3. Image plane documentation: [https://wiki.freecad.org/Std\_Import\#Image\_Plane](https://wiki.freecad.org/Std\_Import\#Image\_Plane)  
5. Update on 1.0 Goals  
   1. Toponaming  
   2. Assembly WB  
   3. Materials  
   4. UI/UX  
      1. Design book  
6. (Yorik) FOSDEM FreeCAD event 2024 is happening. Any idea? Wishes? [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=82330](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=82330)  
7. (Ajinkya) FreeCAD event at PyCon India/IndiaFOSS 2024?  
   1. Met about 5-6 separate users making cases, one [mostlyharmless.io](http://mostlyharmless.io), and [one “table top scribe” revision](https://drive.google.com/file/d/17iYfd-aNTAGFpx2MsSOwMrO61ZHd\_os1/view?usp=drive\_link) in 2023\.  
   2. There are stalls possible in IndiaFOSS. Hopefully the “unconference” will also happen.

ACTIONS:

- [ ] Ondsel will likely do a blog post on product owners and functionality-driven discussion  
- [ ] @Maintainers \- go through last months commits for candidates for backporting  
- [ ] Update / add a PR template to ask PR creators whether the PR (or commits) are candidates for backport  
- [ ] We need some smart github actions so people don't forget to update the wiki or release notes after their PR is merged  
- [ ] Add Yorik to the list of grant application reviewers  
- [ ] Do calls for reviewing grant applications, similarly to PR review calls  
- [ ] Find coin preview reference for Dave  
- [ ] Ajinkya to write forum/blog post about freecad users met.
