# FreeCAD Developer Meeting Minutes - October 5, 2025

## 1. Meeting Information:
*   **Date:** October 5, 2025
*   **Time:** 15:30 UTC
*   **Location:** Virtual Meeting

## 2. Agenda Items:
*   AI generated code policy
*   Removing the Robot Workbench
*   FYI: BIM Module formatting
*   FEP-0010: Variant Parts
*   Backporting macro
*   About Website
*   Tango Project

## 3. Discussion Points:

### AI generated code policy
*   Pull request: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/24126
*   Main point of contention: ban AI contributions entirely (Yorik's viewpoint) or require contributors to understand their submissions (Reqrefusion's viewpoint).
*   AI can be a helpful tool for developers.
*   We should not ban code for which we can't tell whether an AI or human generated it.
*   Kacper gave example of a PR from Max.
*   Kacper trusts that Max understands the code and he is unable to detect whether an AI helped.
*   Discussion leaned toward developer responsibility, expecting developers to understand the submitted code.
*   Copyright infringement is also considered a problem.
*   Current contributors policy already places this responsibility on the developer.
*   Trivial code generated from an AI is not copy-rightable.
*   For AI generated code the responsibility is still of the contributor for copyright compliance.
*   Overall consensus for Reqrefusion's viewpoint, developer repsonsibility.

### Removing the Robot Workbench

*   Proprietary KUKA files in the repo is a problem for Debian
*   Roy explains that the Robot workbench is not removed but that the KUKA files will be removed.
*   There will be a dialog with a link to the KUKA website and the files are accessible there.
*   Consensus on merging https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/24304

### BIM Module formatting

*   Roy announces that they are aiming to do the BIM reformatting end of this week or a few days after.
*   Now would be a good time to make changes
*   Kacper mentions that there is a large C++ reformatting PRfor the week of October 15.
*   Perhaps better to do these at the same time, to discuss with Marcus.
*   Reformatting of PRs after this is a concern.
*   Kacper will provide detailed instructions on how to do the formatting.
*   No big problems expected, except for a few large PRs but also these are manageable.

### FEP-0010: Variant Parts

*   Pieter introduces the Variant Parts enhancement proposal.
*   Explanation of small differences with the Research Variants Project
*   Fine-grained recomputing of document objects, based on properties.
*   Exposed properties to allow referencing dependent objects.
*   Based on links to make sure that subtrees are available.
*   Discussion raised by Adrian on cyclic dependencies that still exist within document objects.
*   Pieter confirms that the current proposal captures this.
*   Currently the FEP is in draft, Pieter wants to move it to "Proposed"
*   Kacper suggests to move it into the proposed state since it seems to be well defined.
*   There is a two week mandatory discussion period that can be extended if needed.
*   Kacper suggests to announce the FEP on the forum for user feedback.

### Backporting macro

*   Roy is inquiring about backporting macros
*   Chris Hennes is not available in the meeting.
*   Agreement to revisit next time when Chris is available.

### About Website

*   PhoneDroid would like to show the various teams and groups on the FreeCAD website
*   Should have been done earlier but nothing materialized
*   Kacper mentions that there is a FEP in draft on Groups, about to be proposed soon.
*   Discussion on location of groups/team, in the about page, dedicated page, wiki
*   Adrian proposes presenting the team not in about but in teams.freecad.org or so.
*   Kacper warns against duplicating info across wiki and new pages; prefers one canonical source.
*   Brad distinguishes software documentation (docs) vs. people (community); notes the community tab links to multiple external resources already.
*   Build a prototype to validate what info to collect, how to present it, and where to host/link it.
*   Start content-first (group definitions, rosters, roles), then refine presentation.
*   Consider Markus’s new website as the eventual home; it will support GitHub-based edits/PRs for easier community updates.
*   Keep the existing wiki About page intact; add a separate “Meet the Team”/team page and distinct link from the homepage.

### Tango Project

*   PhoneDroid introduces the Tango Icon Set issue.
*   Released in public domain in 2009, but public domain means different things in different countries.
*   License file should reflect this, most likely custom license file.
*   Confusion about whether FreeCAD uses Tango icons or icons inspired by Tango guidelines
*   Adrian believe some icons may be Tango-derived but most created for FreeCAD.
*   Discussion about icons under different licenses while being distributed under a single compatible license (e.g., overall LGPL).
*   There is a past effort to convert icons to Tango style and is documented in a forum thread.
*   Pieter suggest to use REUSE.software that is a standard to license each file where each license goes into a licenses folder.
*   Discussion on the distinction between licensing code and assets.

## 4. Decisions Made:

*   Reqrefusion's suggestion on using AI for code contributions, emphasizing developer reponsbility for understanding the source code and for copyright compliance.
*   Not removing the Robot workbench, but just the proprietary files with a dialog and a link to the original files.
*   Coordination Kacper and Marcus regarding reformatting the C++ code and the BIM module.
*   Move FEP-0010 to the proposed stage, inviting the developers to comment.
*   Revisit the topic of backporting macros when Chris is available.

## 6. Next Meeting:
*   Saturday, 18 October 2025, 1530h UTC
