# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 15 February 2025**

1. **screenapp.io is NOT taking minutes**
   - No one with access was available to start the recording, so chennes is taking notes.

2. **How to handle permissions on the new ex-Ondsel repos?** (Yorik)
   - Yorik was not present, so the item will be tabled until next meeting.

4. **Code reviews for PRs** (chennes)
   - Problem: FreeCAD's code quality is uneven.
   - Problem: Code review is time consuming and cannot be effectively performed during the weekly PR review meetings.
   - Problem: Onboarding new developers requires balancing rigorous code quality review with understanding of their limitations and available time.
   - Possible solution: dedicated group of frontline reviewers to look at new PRs, onboard new devs, and help with code-related issues. Complement to DWG and CAG.
   - Discussion:
      - Mentorship is a very important aspect of this
      - But calling the group "mentors" is not helpful for more experienced contributors (who still need code looked at)
      - The group will form and define its own purpose and charter
      - Initial volunteers: Pieter Hijma, hyarion, and kadet1090

5. **Profiling instrumentation** (chennes)
   - [PR 19428](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/19428) proposes adding support for the Tracy profiler
   - For best results, this requires manual instrumentation of areas of the code that are under investigation
   - cppcon2023 presentation on Tracy: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ghXk3Bk5F2U
   - Discuss: Is this something we want permanently in the codebase?
      - Profiling is very helpful
      - Don't necessarily want to tie 100% to Tracy
      - Needs and abstraction layer and further work to determine exactly where to instrument
      - Possible intersection with ongoing work by chennes to use Sentry for telemetry addon

6. **Python-based C++ bindings** (tritao)
   - [PR 19516](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/19516) proposes a new generator model.
   - New system is easier for developers to understand and maintain, far more readable, documented.
   - Allows providing Python APIs type hinting information, which can be used in the future for type checking Python as well as generating indexed Python APIs documentation.
   - New bindings manual for reference here: https://gist.github.com/tritao/d4583d2721a18af60fd4d5e41837b0b9
   - Discuss: Any objections?
      - Devs present really liked this work
      - Possible use for FEP (see below)

5. **Process for choosing which standards and libraries to support** (chennes)
   - Basic principle: FreeCAD is Open Source, and compiling it yourself is a fully-supported distribution method
   - Not everyone can update their system to use the newest compilers or libraries
   - Not everyone wants to wholly duplicate all tooling and libraries for each piece of software (e.g. Pixi)
   - Given that: we choose a C++ standard, Python minimum version, and library minimum versions to support
   - Historically, we chose a popular LTS distro and used that to set our versions (currently Ubuntu 20.04 LTS)
   - Arbitrary, but easy to implement and easy to explain
   - Major costs to project:
       - have to support many versions of libraries (e.g. Qt5 and Qt6)
       - leads to code complexity, multiple code paths, lots of dev effort
       - can't use latest library features (e.g. Start couldn't use Qt Quick because of changes from Qt 5.12 to Qt 5.15)
       - cant't use latest language features (C++17 and Python 3.8 are *old*)
       - every 1.5 years we have to argue about it
    - Discuss: alternatives?
       - Commit to dropping support for 20.04 now, going forward to the 1.1 release
       - Can't drop further support right now, too big a leap
       - Consider proactively dropping support for 22.04 LTS immediately after the 1.1 release, so 1.2 will only support 24.04LTS from then on. 

6. **Revive the FreeCAD Enhancement Proposal process?** (chennes)
   - Looking for a way to discuss long-term or big-picture changes
   - Back in the day: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals
   - Proposal: https://github.com/kadet1090/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals/blob/master/FEPs/FEP-0001-process.md
   - Discussion:
      - Developers present like the idea of a process for discussing large changes
      - Some concern that the process will be abused and take too many resources
      - How does this tie into/relate to CONTRIBUTING.md?
      - This is for *big* changes, not for every small PR
      - FEPs must be at least co-sponsored by "core developers"
      - First FEP will define the FEP process

7. **CAD Working Group** (pierreporte)
   - Can we merge the sheet metal wb at some point?
   - Discuss:
      - Developer doesn't want it actually merged into the codebase (lack of update mechanism, still too beta)
      - Alternatives were discussed such as:
         - Shipping FreeCAD with some "pre-installed" addons
         - Creating a new type of Addon that solely installs packages of other addons (and is presented in Start?)
         - Better versioning of Addons
         - Higher release cadence so Addons don't get so out of date

8. **Refactor Raptor Demo Dates** (oursland)
   - 2/18 between 10AM - 2PM PST
   - 2/20 between 10AM - 2PM PST
      - Discuss:
         - Jackson will choose a date and send the invite out

The meeting adjourned after 90 minutes. Remaining agenda items will be added to the next developer meeting agenda.
