### summary

[00:00:06] - Introduction and welcome to the meeting.

[00:03:24] - Discussion about transition to QT6 and QT5 support.

[00:04:54] - Sober debate on the need for continuous support of QT5.

[00:06:02] - Questions about compatibility in different Linux distributions.

[00:09:03] - Considerations about LTS versions and QT5 support.

[00:12:01] - Discussion about the importance of maintaining support for QT5.

[00:17:28] - Challenging development with QT5 and QT6 in projects.

[00:19:01] - Proposal to not remove QT5 support, but limit references.

[00:22:04] - Discussion about kernel changes and tolerance in systems.

[00:23:41] - The importance of tolerance in processes and its practical application.

[00:23:26] - Discussion about tolerance in processes and its importance.

[00:27:04] - Identification of bugs and the need for a process to report them.

[00:29:15] - The main branch is not expected to be stable, bugs are normal.

[00:30:58] - The importance of reporting bugs is the difficulty of finding all problems.

[00:34:10] - Discussion about the need to report problems in GitHub forums.

[00:37:05] - Proposal of a reward program for bugs and improvements.

[00:41:03] - Discussion on the effectiveness of the current reward program.

[00:44:20] - The importance of rewards for simple and boring tasks.

[00:46:10] - Need for technical criteria to decide on rewards.

[00:54:03] - Discussion on CI artifact storage for tests.

[01:00:00] - The importance of releasing artefacts to facilitate tests and pull requests.

[00:59:21] - Discussion on increasing storage space due to crashes.

[01:00:00] - Mention of creating a snap package from a pull request.

[01:00:44] - Proposal to accept bug reports on the forum instead of GitHub.

[01:01:04] - Concerns about synchronizing bug reports between the forum and GitHub.

[01:03:02] - Max is willing to manage bug reports on the forum.

[01:04:14] - Discussion on why users object to using GitHub for bug reporting.

[01:05:56] - Suggestion to tag issues as bugs instead of moving threads.

[01:07:12] - Concerns about the implications of using GitHub for reporting issues.

[01:10:04] - Forum seen as a friendlier platform for non-developers to report issues.

[01:12:07] - Consideration of self-hosting alternatives to GitHub in the future.

[01:20:12] - Discussion on file structure organization in the project.

[01:25:38] - Proposal to attribute more bounties for blocking issues.

[01:27:03] - Suggestion to improve organization of the codebase for better management.

[01:35:00] - Frank raises concerns about API standardization and documentation feedback.

[01:41:05] - Meeting concludes with a note on recording and minute availability.

### transcript

[00:00:06] The conversation begins with a tom descontra√≠do, where a participant mentions that he doesn't remember something, followed by a question about what others are doing.

[00:03:24] The meeting seems to be starting with 11 participants, and two participants introduce themselves as CRENA. They mention that the agenda is defined and that the meeting is sento gravada.

[00:03:48] CRENA talks about the current situation of QT6, mentioning that a transition to QT6 is necessary, but that support for QT5 requires a significant effort by the developers. Ele questiona como e quando a muenda deve ser feita.

[00:04:54] A participant suggests that there is less use of QT5 and that the transition can be complicated, especially in distributions like Ubuntu 22 and 24, which do not support QT6.

[00:06:02] The discussion deepens about the need to support QT5, as a participant mentions that some distributions can have similar problems. The conversation focuses on the need to maintain QT5 support for more time.

[00:07:41] A participant mentions that a Windows 10 is being discarded and that a version of macOS is 10.13, raising concerns about the compatibility of versions. The conversation continues sobre como as dependencias e bibliotecas we affect a development in different operating systems.

[00:09:03] The discussion turns to support for LTS versions, as a participant affirming that support for QT5 should not be a big problem, because LTS versions have a longer life cycle.

[00:10:31] The conversation addresses the question of how QT5 can be supported, as a focus, we guarantee that older versions are not completely abandoned.

[00:12:01] A participant suggests that the change to QT6 must be done gradually, and that it is important to consider the needs of developers who still use QT5.

[00:13:07] The discussion deepens about the difficulties of maintaining compatibility between QT5 and QT6, as a participant expressing concerns about the complexity of development.

[00:15:01] A participant mentions that the transition to QT6 can be challenging, especially for more complex user interfaces, and that hacks can be needed to guarantee compatibility.

[00:18:28] The conversation focuses on the need to plan the transition to QT6, as a focus on guaranteeing that QT5 support is not completely removed, but the reference to it is minimized.

[00:20:01] A participant suggests that the team must concentrate on guaranteeing that the transition to QT6 is done effectively, without compromising the quality of development.

[00:21:12] The meeting advances to discuss the agenda and the need to accelerate the discussion, as a focus to ensure that all points are addressed before the end of the meeting.

[00:22:04] The conversation turns to a question of tolerance in relation to changes in the kernel, as a participant expressing that the transformation is necessary, but it can be challenging.

[00:23:41] The discussion ends as a focus on the need for tolerance in processes and the importance of planning adequately as changes to guarantee that all aspects are considered.

[00:23:26] Discussion about tolerance in processes, mentioning that a kernel does not have a relationship with real tolerance. It is necessary to have a clear understanding of tolerance to realize processes, as in the case of soil. The tolerance is compared to a key of 5 meters, which may seem small, but is significant in certain contexts.

[00:24:50] A life initiative called Phoenix is ‚Äã‚Äãmentioned, highlighting the importance of not being afraid to address problems. The need to open bug reports is emphasized, as is the idea that this must be treated as a real bug. There is a discussion about changing tolerance and how this can affect a system, as a conclusion that it is a bug that needs to be corrected.

[00:26:06] The conversation turns to identification and a process of opening bug reports, as it is necessary to understand the cause of the problem. The importance of a structured process to report bugs is highlighted, as well as the need for careful development and appropriate tests before mixing changes.

[00:27:36] The expectation that a main branch is not stable is discussed, as is the understanding of what problems can arise. The experience of a developer is shared, emphasizing that no test can guarantee that all problems are encountered. The need for feedback from the community is mentioned as a form of identifying problems that were not detected during tests.

[00:29:15] The discussion focuses on the importance of reporting bugs and the need for concrete examples to reproduce issues. Frustration with the lack of response in forums is expressed, and the idea that developers should be encouraged to report issues is discussed. The need for a clear process for reporting bugs is emphasized.

[00:30:50] The proposal for a bug bounty program is put forward, with the idea that this could help solve important issues. The discussion turns to the need for a selection process to determine which issues should receive bounties, with the suggestion that the community could nominate issues they consider important.

[00:37:05] The proposal for a bug bounty program is discussed, with the idea that this could speed up the resolution of issues. The need for a clear process for selecting issues and allocating resources is emphasized. The importance of involving the community in identifying issues is mentioned.

[00:54:03] The issue of storing CI artifacts for testing is raised, with the need to allow developers to download artifacts for testing in different configurations. The current storage limitation is discussed, and the possibility of manually requesting storage is suggested. The importance of having access to artifacts to facilitate development is highlighted.

[01:00:00] The possibility of creating Snap packages from pull requests is mentioned, but the difficulty of reproducing development environments on different operating systems is acknowledged. The need for clear documentation to help developers reproduce CI environments is emphasized, as is the importance of having artifacts available for testing.

[00:59:21] The meeting begins with a mention of a second crash of the day, prompting a discussion about increasing storage space. The participants agree that this might be a useful step to take.

[00:59:45] Adrenium returns to the conversation and discusses the possibility of creating a snap package from a pull request. However, he notes that this is not ideal for users, especially since it only applies to Linux and is not part of the CI environment. He emphasizes the need for artifacts to be uploaded to facilitate this process.

[01:00:44] The next agenda item addresses accepting bug reports on the forum. Verna suggested this approach as some users prefer not to use GitHub for various reasons. Previously, the forum had a system for reporting bugs, but it was difficult to maintain synchronization with GitHub. Max, who is now managing the bugs, is willing to try opening a section on the forum for bug reports, which would still link back to GitHub as the primary source of truth.

[01:01:14] David expresses concerns about the synchronization workload between the forum and GitHub. He suggests that the process needs to be well-defined before implementation. He also questions the reasons behind users' objections to GitHub, suggesting that the platform is generally user-friendly.

[01:04:26] Another participant agrees that while a separate bug report section could be beneficial, moving threads between sections could lead to confusion. They propose tagging issues as bugs instead of relocating them, which could help streamline the process without complicating the forum structure.

[01:07:12] Stomph shares his perspective, stating that concerns about GitHub stem from data privacy issues and the platform's management practices. He highlights that many users may have corporate accounts that restrict their ability to contribute to open-source projects.

[01:09:28] A participant mentions that the forum is a more welcoming space for non-developers to raise issues, suggesting that users could report problems there, which could then be transferred to GitHub by developers. This approach could facilitate communication and ensure that issues are documented properly.

[01:12:55] David reiterates the importance of having a clear process for transferring discussions from the forum to GitHub, highlighting that the forum should serve as a place for initial discussions before issues are formally logged on GitHub.

[01:20:04] The meeting transitions to discussing file structure and organization within the project. A participant raises concerns about the current organization of files, particularly in the GUI folder, which contains a large number of files that make navigation cumbersome. They suggest that reorganizing the file structure could improve the development experience, especially as the project transitions to C++ version 20. [01:25:38] The topic shifts to the potential for attributing more bounties to issues. There is still funding available for three or four issues, and participants are encouraged to suggest candidates for bounties.

[01:25:38] The topic shifts to the potential for attributing more bounties to issues. There is still funding available for three or four issues, and participants are encouraged to suggest candidates for bounties. 

[01:27:03] Dave introduces the final agenda item regarding core organization. He highlights the challenges of navigating the current file structure, particularly in the GUI folder, which contains thousands of files. He suggests that reorganizing the files could enhance the development process and make it easier for new developers to learn the codebase. 

[01:31:04] A new participant introduces themselves and expresses their intention to engage with the community through Discord and the forums. 

[01:35:00] Frank raises a concern about the lack of feedback on his work regarding API standardization for Python extensions. He emphasizes the importance of receiving input to improve the documentation and make it more accessible for new developers. 

[01:39:20] Frank explains that he has been working on a documentation generator to keep the API documentation synchronized with the codebase. He expresses a desire for collaboration and feedback from the community to enhance the quality of the documentation. 

[01:41:05] The meeting concludes with a reminder that the discussion has been recorded and that minutes will be made available for participants to review.

### chat transcript

BMaxV / Bruce Malt says:I'm new, so I'll just wait and watch you go through the agenda for today üòÉ 

Benjamin Nauck (hyarion) says:Today's agenda: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-developer-meetings/blob/main/Agendas/agenda-2024-11-03.md

reqrefusion says:Transitioning to Qt6-only (chennes, cannot attend)

    Ubuntu 20.04 LTS end of support is April 2025
    Ubuntu 22.04 has Qt6.2 but not PySide
    Supporting Qt5 takes significant developer effort
    When and how do we want to make the switch? 

David Carter says:I would argue for dropping "cute"  üòÑ 

CorvusCorax says:the app images are going to have their own qt included, right? 

Jackson Oursland says:Yes.  The .AppImages contain the necessary dependencies, including Qt. 

reqrefusion says:In my language, kute means beating. 

stumpf says:for testing for self compling on debian it would be nice to have qt5, but not manadtory 

CorvusCorax says:is pyside6 installable via pip alongside system older pyside? 

stumpf says:because of pyside 

Benjamin Nauck (hyarion) says:kadet has been raising his hand for a long time 

Kacper Donat (kadet) says:There is like ton of hacks than we need for supporting both 

reqrefusion says:Kadet was one of those who participated in the most discussions regarding this issue. 

stumpf says:i would not use pip when you use apt or any other package manager, because it is very brittle 

stumpf says:in parallel just to be clear 

Kacper Donat (kadet) says:That is impossible 

Kacper Donat (kadet) says:But you can't here me 

Kacper Donat (kadet) says:Nah just my microphone is problem 

Benjamin Nauck (hyarion) says:the whiteboard üòÉ 

Benjamin Nauck (hyarion) says:just unpin it 

John O'Shaughnessy (JohnOCFII) says:I think someone started drawing on the whiteboard... unknowingly... 

reqrefusion says:Doubts regarding the recent changes with tolerances (stump, may not be able to join) 

reqrefusion says:That's what Article 6 is about. 

reqrefusion says:This meeting is more about goals and not about what to do. 

wandererfan says:is the tolerance change only in main (1.1.0) or is in v1.0? 

reqrefusion says:There may be more informative text on this subject. 

Benjamin Nauck (hyarion) says:
https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=91343&start=10

CorvusCorax says:
https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?p=788808#p788808

David Carter says:Gone for coffee. Still listening 

wandererfan says:added to Wednesday FPA meeting -DISCUSS: post facto Grants 
From Sunday Dev Meeting - agenda item 4
Example was a bug fixer who doesn‚Äôt want to create a proposal until most of the work is done. 

Benjamin Nauck (hyarion) says:I think it is important to have a good "definition of done" for bounties, so there's no ambiguity if it is solved or not 

wandererfan says:"should" be caught by the merge process, but we could have a "warranty period" after the merge.  once that post merge period ends, we cut the cheque. 

David Carter says:First Jitsi crash of the day 

wandererfan says:FPA agenda item 19 DISCUSS: grants for upstream project work 

Benjamin Nauck (hyarion) says:It would be good, as a non-windows user, to be able to download a windows build of a branch for testing it on a friends windows computer. 

wandererfan says:I use VirtualBox to run a Windows VM for this, but it is painful. 

Benjamin Nauck (hyarion) says:being able to allow people test an artifact would decrease the need to merge to main for testing too 

stumpf says:true +1 

David Carter says:All I'm hearing is "cabin in the woods". Sorry 

CorvusCorax says:one issue is, to make an account on github - even a temporary or throwaway from, you have to agree to the terms of conditions of github. if you can not or do not want to agree to these conditions, you can't make an account 

David Carter says:üëç 

Kacper Donat (kadet) says:üëç 

CorvusCorax says:Microsoft does not exactly have a good track record with keeping customer data secure 

Kacper Donat (kadet) says:Sure, but neither does random admin from the 

Kacper Donat (kadet) says:from the internet* 

Kacper Donat (kadet) says:Have to go! Good week to you all! 

reqrefusion says:Bye 

David Carter says:Or company random addmin sells to 

David Carter says:A linear increase in platforms is an exponential increase in the required effort. The justification needs to be compelling and so far I dont think it is 

Alexandre says:gtg, bye! 

Yorik says:
https://discord.com/channels/870877411049357352/1287521143733096542
 
pierreporte says:MIME type list : 
https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml

pierreporte says:MIME type registration form: 
https://www.iana.org/form/media-types

Benjamin Nauck (hyarion) says:A suggestion on structure would be great üòÉ 

stumpf says:is ok 

Frank (mnesarco) says:
https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=86414

Frank (mnesarco) says:
https://github.com/mnesarco/fcapi
