# Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information:
- Date: 03 August 2025
- Time: 1530 UTC
- Location: Jit.si Meet (online)

## 2. Agenda Items:

3. **FEP-0007: Consistent language across FreeCAD** @kadet1090
   - 2 weeks period for discussion has passed
   - Feedback was addressed, no concerns was raised afterwards
   - Last chance to comment

5. **FEP-0008: Project Group Structure** @kadet1090
   - One of the problems of the FreeCAD community is that it has become insular. Groups have turned their back on the forum 
     and have discussions on different platforms instead. But their actions and decisions then do impact the project and other 
     contributors. This can easily lead to conflicts. We need to re-examine this practice. - @Roy-043
   - Some formal definition of group would be good to have, proposal: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals/pull/23
  
6. **Setting the time for feature freeze** - @kadet1090
   - We need to fix time to make Feature Freeze
   - Suggestion: 2025-09-01 - Feature Freeze, 2025-09-14 - UI Freeze
   - Suggestion: Feature Freeze means feature freeze and affects when PR got merged, not submitted
   - Suggestion: Change of rules - branch out on the first day of feature freeze, that way we can technically still merge features for easier integration
   - Suggestion: On merge meetings focus on PR fixing stuff, leave features to the end of the meeting

6. **Weekly Builds** - @oursland
   - The weekly builds on the FreeCAD/FreeCAD repo are now parity with FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Bundle
   - Shall we archive the FreeCAD-Bundle repo and update documentation to the new weekly builds?

7. **Update from FAB25** - @pieterhijma
   - Interesting potential projects:
	 - https://www.openfootwear.com/
		 - interested in using CAD software
		 - anyone interested in devloping a FreeCAD addon for this project?
	 - Discussion with people from FabLab Tetem: https://tetem.nl/
		 - They teach children CAD, use tinkerCAD, would like to use simplified FreeCAD
		 - anyone interested in a project like this, for example from DWG?

8. **Pixi as recommended dependency and build system** - @hyarion
   - We have a lot of ways to build FreeCAD, which is great! But all these options makes it difficult for new people to join the project.
   - Deciding on one would greatly simplify writing good documentation, all other options can still be mentioned as they are still important for some people.
   - Pixi has become de facto standard during the last year for CI, dev builds and soon to build releases.
   - As [worser wrote on the forum](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=95279):
     > As a Mac user, and having struggled for f*ing years with brew=based build nightmare, I am very pleased to report that implementing pixi has completely removed all that stress. Magic!
   - Recommendation: Decide to primarily recommend people to use Pixi in documentation, but present that other options exists too

## 3. Discussion Points:

### Consistent Language Across FreeCAD

- Discussion about using title case versus sentence case for menu items.
- Roy-043 expressed a preference against title case.
- The importance of consistency with other software packages was highlighted.
- Concerns were raised about changing the GUI for experienced users.
- The need to balance the experience of existing users with the onboarding of new users was discussed.

#### Discussion

The meeting began with a discussion of the FEP concerning consistent language usage across the FreeCAD interface. Kadet1090 noted that the two-week discussion 
period had passed, feedback had been addressed, and no new concerns had arisen. He proposed merging the FEP to unblock pending pull requests, emphasizing 
that a decision was better than continued delay. An amendment regarding units was planned but wouldn't hold up the merge. Roy-043 had microphone issues, so 
Kacper Donat (kadet) suggested continuing and addressing Roy's comments via text later. The team agreed to postpone the decision until Roy-043 could properly 
communicate.

At the end of the meeting the discussion circled back to the language FEP, as Roy-043's microphone was now working. Roy-043 reiterated his objection to title case. 
Kadet1090 acknowledged Roy's opinion but emphasized the need for consistency with other software. He noted that most FreeCAD menu items already use title case. 
PierrePorte cautioned against changing the GUI for experienced users. Kadet1090 argued that sticking to old ways creates barriers for new users. He acknowledged 
that any decision would upset some users. Kadet1090 stated that the FEP would be merged as approved by the end of the day, with the possibility of future amendments.

### Groups in FreeCAD

- Review of a draft document outlining the responsibilities of different groups within FreeCAD.
- Definition of responsibilities for working groups and maintainers.
- Introduction of the concept of "task forces" for achieving specific goals.
- Discussion on user input and influence on FreeCAD's direction.
- Clarification of the role and membership requirements of working groups.
- Debate on the accessibility and inclusivity of different communication platforms, particularly GitHub and Discord.
- Emphasis on constructive feedback and respectful communication.
- Agreement that working groups should be able to choose their preferred communication platforms, but decisions should be documented on GitHub.
- Concerns raised about users who cannot or do not want to use certain platforms.

#### Discussion

Kadet1090 introduced a draft document outlining the responsibilities of various groups within FreeCAD, including working groups and maintainers. The document aims to clarify roles and communication structures.

*   **Working Groups:** These groups serve as advisory bodies to maintainers, offering guidance on topics related to their area of interest. For example, the Design Working Group (DWG) comments on UX/UI issues. Their role is strictly advisory, with no decision-making power.
*   **Task Forces:** Inspired by the Research Data Alliance (RDA), task forces are focused on achieving specific goals, such as improving toponaming in FreeCAD. They are expected to work independently and communicate effectively.
*   **Responsibilities:** The document covers group structure, communication, and creation of new groups. It lists the existing groups: Design Working Group, CAD Working Group, Code Quality Working Group, and Infrastructure Working Group.


- Pieter raised the question of user input, suggesting a community working group to advise on topics. Kadet1090 responded that the document defines the
- framework, and new groups can be established if someone is willing to lead them. Wandererfan clarified that task forces are temporary project teams,
- and there's nothing unusual about having users on them. Kadet1090 emphasized that task forces should ideally include developers, DWG members, users, and clients.

PierrePorte questioned the requirements for joining such groups, noting that interest seemed to be the primary criterion. Kadet1090 clarified that the document 
mandates each group to define its membership requirements, subject to discussion during the FEP process. For example, DWG members should actively participate 
in UI/UX discussions and provide feedback aligned with good UI/UX practices.

PierrePorte expressed concern that GitHub, where discussions occur, is not accessible to all users. PierrePorte added that in engineering, GitHub and Git are 
not widely known. Kadet1090 responded that the CWG (CAD Working Group) provides user input, and groups are free to define their communication methods. PierrePorte 
clarified that anyone can interact with working group members on Discord or GitHub. Benjamin Nauck highlighted the importance of the CAD working group for gaining 
experience. Brad Collette (sliptonic) noted that GitHub is crucial for maintainers to ping groups on issues and pull requests. Wandererfan suggested thinking of 
working groups as special interest groups and emphasized that communication doesn't have to happen on GitHub, only documentation of decisions.

Stump raised concerns about negative feedback on the forum and lack of response to input. Kadet1090 stated that feedback must be constructive. Pieter noted that 
the forum can be an unpleasant place with personal attacks. Brad Collette (sliptonic) pointed out that development discussion has moved away from the forum 
because people find other platforms more useful.

Stump argued that positive feedback on other platforms might be "toxic positivity". Stump also questioned the use of Discord, a non-FOSS platform, citing privacy 
concerns. Pieter reiterated that personal attacks are the issue, not criticism itself. Kadet1090 emphasized that discussions on other platforms focus on PR issues, 
not personal attacks. Alexandre asked where decisions would be tracked, and Kadet1090 clarified that it would be on GitHub, either in comments, PRs, or FEPs.

Dreqrefusion suggested tabling the discussion. Kadet1090 agreed, asking everyone to read the document for further discussion at the next meeting. PhoneDroid
expressed concern that users without access to Discord or GitHub are effectively left out. Kadet1090 responded that it's impossible to find a platform that includes 
all users. Pieter suggested adding a statement to the document encouraging working groups to be as inclusive as possible.

### Feature Freeze
- Proposal to initiate a feature freeze starting September 1st.
- Discussion on branching out to allow continued development of new features while focusing on bug fixes for the 1.1 release.
- The need to address regressions and blocker issues before the release.
- Clarification of the meaning of "UI freeze" and its impact on translators and documentation.
- Mention of a new feature for labeling pull requests for backporting.
- Confirmation that all GSOC code would go into the 1.2 release.

#### Discussion

Kadet1090 proposed a feature freeze starting September 1st, aiming for a new release after almost a year since the last one. Jackson Oursland supported the idea, 
emphasizing the need to branch out and merge in fixes. He inquired about the release goals. Kadet1090 stated that the goal is to eliminate blocker issues and address 
regressions. He reiterated the plan to branch out for new features (1.2) while focusing on fixes for the 1.1 release.

Stump recalled Werner's frustration with the last feature freeze due to continuous feature additions. Benjamin Nauck noted that the previous release date, set before 
HCU, could have been handled differently. He asked for clarification on "UI freeze," and Kadet1090 explained it as minimizing UI changes to allow translators to work.
Alexandre suggested differentiating between UI freeze and string freeze (no more translatable messages). Kadet1090 agreed, emphasizing the need for a stable point 
for documentation and translation. Alexandre (2) suggested a month for translators.

Jackson mentioned a new feature allowing labeling pull requests for backporting. reqrefusion inquired about the impact on GSoC projects. Kadet1090 clarified that 
GSoC code would go into 1.2, and the focus would be on fixes for 1.1.


### Archiving FreeCAD-bundle Repository
- Agreement that the new FreeCAD weekly build has feature parity with the old FreeCAD-bundle repository.
- Recognition of the benefits of the new repository, such as tagged releases and easier bug identification.
- Decision to archive the FreeCAD-bundle repository and update documentation to point to the new weekly builds.

#### Discussion

Jackson Oursland announced feature parity between the old FreeCAD-bundle repository and the new FreeCAD weekly build. The new repository offers tagged releases, 
facilitating bug identification and git bisect. Jackson Oursland, Adrian, and Lorenz agreed that it's time to archive the FreeCAD-bundle and update documentation. 
Pieter noted the need to update the website and developer documentation. Kadet1090 suggested consulting with Adrian and reqrefusion regarding website 
content changes.

### FAB 25 Conference Update
- Presentation of two interesting projects from the conference:
    - Open footwear project seeking a CAD solution.
    - Fab lab in the Netherlands teaching CAD to children and seeking a user-friendly version of FreeCAD.
- Suggestion to create different versions of FreeCAD for different target groups.
- Discussion on creating a preference pack to simplify the user interface.

#### Discussion

Peter shared updates from the Feb 25 conference in the Czech Republic. He mentioned an open-source shoe project (Open Footwear) seeking a 3D CAD solution and a 
Fab Lab in the Netherlands (Tatum) looking for a user-friendly CAD program for children. Peter suggested a limited version of FreeCAD or a preference pack to simplify 
the interface. Billy Connor mentioned working on a simplified interface for his makerspace.

### Pixi Documentation
- Discussion on Pixi, a tool for simplifying the build process.
- Agreement that Pixi is a great tool, but documentation needs improvement.
- Concerns raised about the developer lifecycle and debugging with Visual Studio.
- Clarification that Pixi is a parallel environment to CMake.
- Explanation of how Pixi downloads and manages dependencies.
- Suggestion to add documentation about the benefits and downsides of Pixi.

#### Discussion

Benjamin Nauck praised Pixi and suggested making it the official preferred method for setting up the development environment. Jackson Oursland acknowledged Pixi's 
benefits but noted documentation gaps for debugging with Visual Studio. He suggested David Carter could help connect Pixi with Visual Studio. Benjamin Nauck 
offered to write documentation with this in mind.

Stump asked if Pixi replaces CMake. Jackson Oursland clarified that Pixi is a layer on top of CMake that downloads dependencies. Stump questioned if Pixi chooses the 
correct dependencies. Jackson Oursland explained that Pixi uses a lock file with all dependencies. Pieter clarified that Pixi downloads all libraries, requiring 
significant disk space. reqrefusion suggested adding Pixi documentation to the wiki.

## 4. Decisions Made:
- Merge the FEP about consistent language wins across FreeCAD.
- Initiate a feature freeze on September 1st.
- Branch to allow continued development of new features while focusing on bug fixes for the 1.1 release.
- Archive the FreeCAD-bundle repository and update documentation to point to the new weekly builds.

## 6. Next Meeting:
- Saturday, 16 August 2025 1530 UTC
- The discussion on groups in FreeCAD will be revisited at the next meeting.
