# FreeCAD Developer Meeting Minutes 17 January 2026

This meeting focused on several key development issues within the FreeCAD project, including continuous integration (CI) build optimization, minimum library requirements, add-on ecosystem improvements, and website enhancements. The discussion aimed to address current challenges and plan for future development strategies.

---

## Reducing CI Builds

Kacper (@kadet1090) initiated a discussion on reducing the number of CI builds to optimize resource usage. Currently, five concurrent builds are running for each PR, consuming significant CI minutes. The central question was whether Windows and Ubuntu builds are necessary for pull requests (PRs).

*   **GUI Tests**: Chris Hennes (@chennes) noted that the non-Pixi Ubuntu build is the only one running the full GUI test suite. Enabling GUI tests on the Pixi Ubuntu build could potentially alleviate this.
*   **Minimum Dependency Versions**: Adrian (@adrianinsaval) highlighted that the Ubuntu build checks for minimum dependency versions, which caused issues recently.
*   **Draft Mode**: John (@PhoneDroid) suggested disabling CI runs when a PR is in draft mode. However, Chris mentioned conflicting workflow requirements from other users. Chris offered a solution to tag PRs in draft mode to temporarily disable CI.
*   **Explicit CI Requests**: Jackson (@oursland) proposed requiring explicit requests for CI builds via comments, especially for draft PRs.

---

## Qt6 and Ubuntu Support

Dave (@davesrocketshop) raised concerns about breaking supported Ubuntu configurations without prior knowledge. Jackson suggested nightly builds to ensure configurations don't break. Kacper noted that enabling PPA for Qt6 means building on basic Ubuntu is no longer strictly true.

*   **Qt5 Support Dropped**: Chris confirmed that Qt5 support was dropped recently (see https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=102292)
*   **Dependency Configurations**: Jackson pointed out that dependency configurations like Qt6 and VTK may differ from Ubuntu repositories, making assumptions about compatibility risky.
*   **Docker Images**: Adrian suggested using Docker images of different Ubuntu versions (e.g., 25.10) for a true Ubuntu CI environment.
*   **Maintainer Merges**: Adrian also suggested allowing maintainers to merge without CI, though past issues exist.
*   **Immportance of non-Pixi Builds**: Louis emphasized the importance of ensuring non-Pixi builds work.

---

## Minimum Library Requirements

Chris proposed moving to the Ubuntu 24.04LTS  libraries as the minimum requirement, bumping OpenCASCADE to 7.6 and potentially Python to 3.12. This change would theoretically bump Python to 3.12, but support for Python 3.11 would continue due to Blender dependencies. It also sets Qt 6.4 as the minimum supported Qt version.

*   **Debian as Reference**: Adrian suggested using Debian Trixie or Debian 13 as a reference instead of Ubuntu, as they include PySide in their repositories.
*   **Ubuntu Baseline**: Dave emphasized that a baseline reference version should be in common use, and switching to Debian might not solve the problem of build issues on Ubuntu.
*   **VFX Platform**: Jackson mentioned following Blender's lead in updating dependencies according to the VFX platform.
*   **PySide Availability**: Adrian noted that PySide is not directly available in Ubuntu. Chris clarified that PIP cannot install the correct version of PySide 6 on Ubuntu 24.04. Louis confirmed that the Qt 6 version from Ubuntu packages must match the PySide 6 version, requiring Python 3.12.
*   **Ubuntu 24 Impasse**: It was recognized that using pure stock Ubuntu 24.04 effectively means requiring Qt 5 due to PySide issues.
*   **Qt5 Drop**: Kacper stated that modern UI features require dropping Qt5.
*   **Summary and Conclusion**: Chris summarized the situation, noting a lack of a good answer and the tension between supporting the latest versions and maintaining the ability to build from source using native packages. Jackson favored staying with an LTS release for stability and third-party package support. Pieter pointed out that there isn't a perfect solution and someone will be negatively impacted. The team decided that the best path forward was to pin to Ubuntu 24.04 LTS for all libraries except PySide6, which would be incorporated via PPA, and to drop support for Python 3.11 when Blender does so (later this year).

---

## Add-on Ecosystem Technical Projects

Frank discussed improving the add-on ecosystem by creating a more consistent Python API. The current API lacks consistent documentation and automatic stops for code completion.

*   **FCAPI Overlay**: Frank proposed a new FreeCAD Python API (FCAPI) overlay to provide a homogeneous infrastructure without breaking existing APIs. This API could be distributed as a separate pip package.
*   **Qt6 and QML**: Frank explored integrating QML for add-ons, allowing development without Python.
*   **Add-on Manager UI**: Modernizing the add-on manager UI was also discussed.

John favored the new API and publishing it as an official package. Chris supported the idea of add-on authors declaring dependency on the new API. Peter suggested unifying the Python C++ bindings to streamline development. Frank highlighted the API as the riskiest project, requiring significant discussion and design to avoid controversy. The overall conclusion was that, while Frank should pick the project(s) most interesting to him, that the overall team felt that the work on the API was the most important thing to pursue.

---

## Website Improvements Initiative

MarcusPollio provided an update on the website project, funded by an FPA grant. He requested a maintainer be responsible for the project, and the creationg of a new repository for code migration.

*   **Maintainer Assignment**: Chris and Yorik volunteered to help, but Yorik proposed making marcuspollio the maintainer of the new website repo.
*   **New Repository**: A new repository will be created, and Marcus will be granted maintainer permissions.

---

## Implicit Conversions to `QString`

Kacper discussed re-enabling implicit conversions to `QString`. The current disabled state makes code harder to read and write and doesn't effectively force translation awareness.

*   **Qt Recommendation**: Kacper noted that Qt recommends enabling implicit conversions, as seen in their documentation.
*   **Translation Awareness**: Pieter and Chris dismissed the translation issue as a primary reason to keep implicit conversions disabled, noting that it was predominantly historical.

There was agreement to re-enable implicit conversions, remove related code, but also to ensure that `fcglobal.h` is included in every file (this lack was seen as a separate issue).

---

## Materials Editor Rework

Dave proposed moving the materials editor rework FPA the in-progress state. Kacper noted that a part of his previous comment was unaddressed. Dave will add a comment addressing the unaddressed parts, and Kacper will post a comment stating a deadline for further input.

---

## Meeting Cancellation

Due to many members attending the open hardware dev room in Brussels, the meeting scheduled for February 1st was canceled.

In conclusion, the meeting addressed diverse aspects of FreeCAD development, reaching consensus on several key issues. Ubuntu 24.04 with PPA was agreed upon as minimum dependency. The team will proceed with Marcus as the lead for website changes. Frank will concentrate on API work. A decision was made to re-enable implicit conversions to `QString`, and the next scheduled meeting was canceled. The next developer meeting will be Saturday, 21 February 2026.
