# Meeting Minutes

**1. Meeting Information:**
- Date: 19 July 2025
- Time: 1530 UTC
- Location: Jitsi Meet

**2. Agenda Items:**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on
  
2. **Actions and decisions of working groups are too opaque** - @Roy-043
   - One of the problems of the FreeCAD community is that it has become insular. Groups have turned their back on the forum and have discussions on different platforms instead. But their actions and decisions then do impact the project and other contributors. This can easily lead to conflicts. We need to re-examine this practice.
  
3. **Update from FAB25** - @chennes and @pieterhijma

4. **BIM workbench, degraded user experience on 1.0.1** - @furgo16
   - I'm not able to attend the meetings live, apologies. I hope adding the item here is appropriate, even in an async capacity.
   - https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/21422. In summary, the issue is fixed but was missed for the 1.0.1 release.
   - Some BIM contributors are advocating for a backport and a 1.0.2 release including it.
   - The negative impact, particularly on new users, is considerable. The fix is simple and has been road-tested.
   - Concerns about the undeserved "unstable" reputation the BIM workbench might be gaining as a result.

5. **New FPA-Sponsored positions open for applications** - @chennes
   - https://fpa.freecad.org/programs/job-offers
   - Addon Ecosystem Coordinator (reopened)
   - FreeCAD Professional Network Lead
   - FPA accountant
   - Infrastructure Maintenance Leader


**3. Discussion Points:**

### Actions and decisions of working groups are too opaque
- Roy raised concerns about a small group operating in seclusion and making decisions that impact FreeCAD without central guidance.
- Pieter noted the forum isn't a happy place.
- Zbynĕk, a newcomer, found it difficult to discover who is who and understand processes.
- Brad clarified the different types of groups and their levels of officialness, emphasizing that groups should be advisory, with final decisions made by maintainers.
- Kacper suggested publishing logs and summaries of discussions on GitHub to improve transparency.
- Jackson noted the forum is dominated by non-developers or non-contributors.
- Brad suggested creating a forum working group to improve user experience.
- Roy expressed concerns about restricting conversations to GitHub participants.

### FAB25 Conference Debrief
- Chris and Pieter presented on FreeCAD at the FAB25 conference.
- Neil Gershenfeld suggested the need for a commercial support mechanism, better examples on the website, and better integration with KiCAD.
- Francesco Siddi mentioned that Blender's commercial support is provided by Canonical.
- Andrew Lamb is interested in getting the metadata that open know-how needs into a FreeCAD file when saving it.
- Pieter shared photos and videos from the conference, including workshops and the Prusa factory tour.

### BIM Workbench Problem
- Zbynĕk explained that the current 1.0.1 release has an issue with IFC OpenShell due to a missing dependency on typing extensions.
- The development version has a workaround, but it hasn't been released.
- Benjamin suggested a 1.0.2 release to address this.
- Chris will coordinate that release with Adrian, noting that there are several other backports that make it worth the effort

### FPA Sponsored Positions
- Chris announced four open positions sponsored by the FPA: Add-on Ecosystem Coordinator, FreeCAD Professional Network Lead, Accountant, and Infrastructure Maintenance Leader.

**4. Decisions Made:**
- Table the discussion on communications until Kacper has a draft FEP ready.
- Chris will chat with Adrian to see if he's okay with making a 1.0.2 release to address the BIM workbench problem.

**5. Action Items:**
- Kacper: Write a draft for the working group's FEP.
  - Person responsible: Casper
  - Deadline: Unspecified (aiming for next meeting, but depends on free time)
- Chris: Chat with Adrian about making a 1.0.2 release.
  - Person responsible: Chris
  - Deadline: This week

**6. Next Meeting:**
- Sunday, 3 Aug 2025, 1530 UTC
