# FreeCAD Developer Meeting Minutes

**Sunday, 1 December 2024**

1. **screenapp.io is NOT taking minutes**
   > Defeated by technology.  Minutes based on wandererfan's scribbles.
   > Attendees: kacper, max, reqrefusion, fellowjitster, newjoker, pieter h, sliptonic, benjamin n,  zbyack winkler, pierreporte, vladimir larim, ajinkya, shaise, wandererfan, abc, vincida, david c

2. **GitHub Issue Action for Stale Issues** (maxwxyz)
   - Adding the actions/stale to help keep the GitHub repository organized and automatically identify/close stale issues.
   - PR: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/18074
   > brief discussion of the proposed chances
   > group recommended implementing the PR
   
3. **Issues raised from FPA admin meeting** (sliptonic)
   - What are the development community's priorities for the next development cycle?
       - FPA will set a 'Top n funding goals'   We would like these to be consistent but not necessarily the same thing because the FPA funds things besides FreeCAD code.
       - FreeCAD development community does better with specific goals.  Historically (toponaming, Py3, Qt5, etc)
   - Do we need to revisit our formal release decision processes in light of our post-1.0 status
       - When do we go to 2.0 vs. 1.n ?
       - If 2.0 is going to be like 1.0, what should its goals be? (1.0's goals were internal Assembly Workbench and Toponaming mitigation)
   > FPA top n initiatives are a way to prioritize spending
   > will next release be as much of a rush as 1.0?
   > a goal: make FC more attractive to commercial users
   > a goal: improved code quality (this item prompted a wide ranging discussion of improvements to be made for the next release (v1.1))
        > wf: broader quality issues - moving toolbars, crashes, bad results
        > kd: polishing. crashes. expose hidden features.
        > dc: felt like we were trying to squeeze too much into the release.  freeze was not quite a freeze.
        > nj: better import/export, occt problems (fillets, thickness), ux, we have lots of tools [in FC]
        > bn: coin, opengl. quality - stability & ux
        > dc: 1.1 should be about quality with new features pushed to 2.0
        > pp: cwg has list of priority items.  ux inconsistencies.
        > kd: deprecate qt5.  move to qml for ui.
        > bn: these are priorities for fpa spending, not a block on feeatures
        > max: shorten release cycle
        > kd: hard to shorten cycle
        > pp: other cads are generally 1 upgrade/yr. users may not expect > 1 release/yr
        > ajinkya: may not be so easy to increase frequency
        > wf: we have control of content. should be able to hit any deadline for small frequent rreleases.
        > max: harder feature freeze
        > ph: +1 for more frequent, smaller releases
        > max: increased frequency may drive increased use and donations
        > bn: we lose nothing by trying faster, smaller
        > consensus: increase frequency, polish the application, revisit this topic in future meetings.
   > brief discussion of branching strategies - stable & devel vs current main


5. **Add chapter with C++ recommended practices in developer handbook** (kadet and hyarion)
   - PR: https://github.com/FreeCAD/DevelopersHandbook/pull/107
   > based on previous work with improvements in presentation
   > includes more examples
   > looking for feedback on PR
   > general guidelines, not really FC specific
   

6. **CWG: New file format** (pierreporte)
   - In principe, reusing FCStd with more structured attributes has been validated
   - Next goal: writing down how FreeCAD should behave when new files are opened
   > looking for feedback
   > should be backwards compatible
   > compatibility with git is not a target
   > want to formalize the file structure
   > full proposal is not ready yet
  
7. **CWG: Cosmetic threads** (pierreporte)
   - Last talked about on October 6, goal was to define UI/UX
   - [Figma prototype](https://www.figma.com/proto/nDkUKcH1YgriUSRG2EInYj/FreeCAD-Dialogs?node-id=247-6670&node-type=canvas&t=dTEcRC8eJWuwnGsA-0&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=247%3A6670&show-proto-sidebar=1) has been done, inspired by Catia but improved
   - Same feature for external and internal threads, it detects automatically what thread to make
   - It can still be improved but it can already work
   - Work has startet to overhaul the hole tool:
       - Initially, to integrate cosmetic threads
       - Extended into a full overhaul to make it easier to use
       - Still a lot of work to do
   > user has to choose between cosmetic and model threads
   > td will only print cosmetic threads
   > major overhaul of part design hole feature
   > may be a relationship with issue #161110 "defeaturing"
   
Any other business?
   > brief discussion of plans for continuation of ondsel initiatives.
   
   

