# FreeCAD Weekly Developer Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information:

- **Date:** 19 April 2025
- **Time:** 1530 UTC
- **Location:** Online via Jitsi.

## 2. Agenda Items:

- Removal of the Drawing Workbench
- Ondsel Solver Vendoring and Update
- Submodules vs. Subtree for Vendoring
- Weekly Build Status
- Part Design/Part Interaction Issues
- Google Summer of Code (GSOC)
- North American Meetup


## 3. Discussion Points:

### Removal of the Drawing Workbench:

- @mosfet submitted a pull request to remove the Drawing workbench.
- Discussion on whether to remove it completely or maintain it for backward compatibility.
- Drawing is deprecated and has been replaced by TechDraw.
- Converting Drawing files to TechDraw is not trivial.
- Proposed phased deprecation: exclude from builds in 1.1, remove from source in 1.2.
- Discussion on accessibility of older FreeCAD versions.

### Ondsel Solver Vendoring and Update:

- Ondsel Solver has performance issues and bugs.
- Jackson proposed vendoring it to address these issues.
- Discussion on whether to vendor as a direct inclusion or a submodule.
- No objections to vendoring.
- Jackson prefers direct inclusion in the source tree for easier PR management.

### Submodules vs. Subtree for Vendoring:

- Jackson presented arguments against submodules, highlighting potential merge conflicts and complexity.
- Demonstrated how submodule updates can cause conflicts even with independent changes.
- Discussion on the appropriate granularity of submodule updates.
- Alternatives like subtree and CMake's fetch content were discussed.
- Benjamin presented a flowchart for deciding between submodules and subtree.
- Discussion on the implications of each approach for repository size and history.
- Jackson advocated for subtree, emphasizing its simpler workflow and easier conflict resolution.
- chennes agreed in principle, and proposed that Jackson come to the next meeting with a migration plan.

### Weekly Build Status:

- Weekly builds will now be on the main FreeCAD repository.
- Builds will be tagged as pre-releases, enabling direct `git bisect` to specific weeklies.
- Current CI system doesn't match the weekly build process due to limitations in Pixi.
- Jackson filed an issue with Pixi; expects future PRs to harmonize CI and weekly builds.

### Part Design/Part Interaction Issues:

- Pieter highlighted a problem with mixing Part and Part Design features, specifically involving fillets and common operations.
- Demonstrated how moving a feature from a Part Design body to a Part common causes unexpected behavior.
- Discussion on whether to restrict mixing Part and Part Design components.
- Jackson suggested using clone features instead of mixing workbenches.
- Agreement to revisit the issue and establish a policy in the next meeting.

### Google Summer of Code (GSOC):

- No GSOC attendees present at the meeting.
- Proposals are being evaluated, with decisions expected soon.

### North American Meetup:

- Scheduled for August 8th and 9th in Springfield, Illinois.
- Hosted at a startup incubator.
- Jackson hopes to attend, pending startup financing.

## 4. Decisions Made:

- **Drawing Workbench:** Phased deprecation plan approved. Not included in compiled 1.1 builds, removed from source in 1.2.
- **Ondsel Solver:** Vendoring approved. Method (subtree vs. direct inclusion) to be decided next meeting.
- **Submodules vs. Subtree:** No final decision. Further discussion planned for next meeting.
- **Part Design/Part Interaction:** No final decision. Policy discussion planned for next meeting.

## 6. Next Meeting:

- 4 May 2025 1530 UTC
