### Attendee Confirmation and Event Details

00:00:07 - 00:02:57

The meeting began with the host, yorik, confirming attendees for an upcoming event ("two fuzz them this year") (I guess it means FOSDEM :) ).  Several attendees were confirmed: Max,  jbaehr (pending availability), kadet, Ajinka, Chris Hens, Brad Slyptonik, Kurt Kremitski, and Joe.  The possibility of another attendee, "the maker," was discussed, but their attendance remained uncertain due to previous last-minute cancellations related to street closures.  After confirming attendees, the meeting officially commenced.

### Developer Handbook Update: Best Practices Chapter

00:03:00 - 00:03:45

yorik introduced the first agenda item: reviewing the "best practices" chapter in the developer handbook.  Benjamin (hyarion) reported on the progress, noting that he documented a broken workflow, submitted a pull request, and that Casper created an additional chapter on maintenance.  The pull request is currently pending review.

### Review and Merge Decision

00:03:46 - 00:06:12

hyarion presented a request for merging a piece of work, noting positive feedback received after changes were implemented.  They mentioned some unresolved comments, but clarified that these were likely addressed by Benjamin, who had already fixed them. kadet confirmed that Benjamin had addressed the comments.  tritao reviewed the work and suggested merging it during the next day's merge meeting, ensuring everyone who might have further comments would be present.  The overall sentiment was positive towards merging the work.

### Addressing Development Workflow and Guidelines

00:06:13 - 00:07:43

tritao proposes a new approach to managing development contributions.  Instead of directly integrating changes into the main repository, new contributions should be proposed as separate additions.  This allows for community feedback and adoption before formal integration.  hyarion agrees to review the proposal.  The discussion emphasizes a more iterative and community-driven development process, where changes are adopted based on community feedback rather than imposed top-down.  The goal is to foster a culture of collaborative development and avoid conflicts.

### Vendoring Coin 3D and PV for Expedited Updates

00:07:44 - 00:08:16

tritao introduces the third point, which involves vendoring Coin 3D and PV to expedite Coin updates.  hyarion mentions prior discussions on Discord regarding necessary changes to modernize Coin.  The context suggests a need for faster updates to Coin, and vendoring Coin 3D and PV is proposed as a solution to achieve this.  The discussion highlights the ongoing efforts to improve Coin and the use of Discord as a platform for preliminary discussions.

### Challenges and Solutions for Integrating New Features into Coin

00:08:16 - 00:10:39

Speaker 4 discusses the difficulties of integrating new features into Coin due to the long wait times before the new features can be used.  They propose two solutions: specifying a new version or vendoring the code to include it, similar to other libraries.  The goal is not to avoid upstream contributions but to improve Coin collaboratively with Coin developers and get new features available quickly. Speaker 5 rephrases this as a distribution issue rather than code management, questioning potential problems with merging their code into Coin, such as a lack of maintainers or communication difficulties. Speaker 2 clarifies that communication with Coin developers (mentioning Jackson and Lorenz from the FreeCAD team) isn't a major obstacle for merging code. However, the real challenge lies in making the updated features available to various distributions, as older distributions like Ubuntu 20.04 might not update to the latest Coin version, potentially hindering bug fixes.  Speaker 4 mentions past issues with EDL support, but it's unclear if the issue is resolved.  The chapter ends with Speaker 3 joining the conversation.

### EDL Integration and Coin Maintainer Communication

00:10:39 - 00:12:56

Speaker 03 has been contacting the coin maintainer regarding EDL merch integration.  Testing shows the merch works well with no side effects unless the incognitive option is enabled and not high-default. The main issue is merging and integrating it into pre-can. tritao inquires about potential problems with the coin maintainer merging the changes. Speaker 03 doesn't foresee issues, mentioning helpful feedback received on other changes (modern OpenGL).  However, an EDL PR has been pending for two years without review. kadet suggests that while eventual merging into the coin is likely, more control is needed to test EDL support before integration. This allows for testing and improving the code before merging, benefiting the coin.  kadet emphasizes the ease of adjusting FreeCAD compared to coin, highlighting the advantages of pre-integration testing and control, even if feedback from the coin maintainers is delayed.  Several issues remain to be addressed.

### Integrating Coin into FreeCAD

00:12:58 - 00:15:26

Speakers discuss the integration of "coin" into "FreeCAD," exploring methods to avoid complications.  kadet highlights the difficulty of integrating without altering the coin's color and emphasizes the benefits of a quick, correct solution for all parties. yorik suggests using a git module for integration, acknowledging a slightly longer CI process but no significant disadvantages.  hyarion raises concerns about increased compilation complexity for developers, although the impact on compilation time is deemed minimal.  yorik proposes a CMake switch, similar to Blender's approach, allowing users to choose between internal and external libraries. This would enable continued compilation of FreeCAD and provide time for distributions to adapt, while also offering the possibility of compiling coin outside of FreeCAD to avoid recompilation.

### Discussion on External Coin Compilation and Support

00:15:27 - 00:17:33

This segment centers on the discussion of supporting external coin compilation. kadet expresses concerns about adding a switch for external coins, arguing it would necessitate supporting potentially broken elements, thus undermining the purpose of controlling coin versions.  They suggest that instead of actively supporting external coins, the focus should be on ensuring the current compilation method remains functional. yorik proposes a different approach, suggesting that while not actively supporting older, potentially broken coins, the system should allow for users to compile their own versions separately, catering to those who prefer manual compilation or using specific distributions.  yorik clarifies that this doesn't imply supporting outdated coins, but rather providing flexibility. hyarion agrees with the distinction between enabling external compilation and actively supporting it, emphasizing that making it possible is beneficial, but doesn't necessitate fixing any broken elements within external coins.  The discussion concludes with yorik suggesting a compromise: maintaining the current compilation method while adding a switch to utilize external coins, if desired.

### Addressing the Internal Coin Issue

00:17:40 - 00:18:37

The discussion centers on an internal coin and its persistent presence.  The need for more input is highlighted, suggesting the opening of an issue to gather opinions and assign responsibility.  The conversation concludes with a transition to the next agenda item.

### Steam Release Plan Discussion

00:18:37 - 00:20:04

Jackson explains a user's inquiry about a Steam release plan.  He notes Steam's acceptance of tools used in animation and video games, highlighting its suitability for distributing Wonder, given its auto-update capabilities across Windows, Linux, and macOS.  The accessibility and reach of Steam are emphasized as advantages over other platforms, particularly for reaching college students.  The discussion touches upon Jackson's personal experience in academia and the potential benefits of Steam distribution for wider accessibility.

### Exploring Freecad on Steam

00:20:05 - 00:22:06

oursland suggests exploring the possibility of making Freecad available on Steam, noting that younger users often utilize Steam for accessing various tools and software.  They raise the question of resource allocation for maintenance and interaction with users on this new platform.  tritao initially questions the feasibility and acceptance of Freecad on Steam, but ultimately suggests a trial approach by submitting a proposal.  The discussion then shifts to the practical aspects of implementation, including the estimated cost ($100) and the workload involved in maintaining a Steam page, updating versions, and providing adequate descriptions and screenshots.  tritao concludes that the decision hinges on assessing the workload and identifying someone willing to take on the responsibility.  The discussion ends with tritao addressing Peter.

### Linux Application Distribution on Steam

00:22:06 - 00:24:30

This segment discusses the technical challenges and solutions for distributing Linux applications on Steam.  hyarion questions the process of distributing Linux applications on Steam, noting the clarity of DMG and installer methods for Mac and Windows, but uncertainty for Linux. oursland explains that past Linux applications they've encountered were self-contained builds including all necessary dependencies.  This suggests a need for a specific build for Steam, potentially using Steam's library system. tritao recalls large shell scripts containing various files (auto and zips) used previously for Linux distribution.  They suggest a simpler approach: using a single image and a script to place it correctly. oursland believes the technical aspect is straightforward.  They plan to contact Valve to assess the effort required.  oursland also intends to reach out to Blender developers to learn about their packaging and maintenance processes, and tritao offers to help find the relevant contacts.  Finally, tritao mentions creating a vote on the FDA (likely a typo, possibly referring to a funding decision) and the initial budget needed, noting it's within the admin's spending limit.

### Discussion on Steam and Final Agenda Item

00:24:31 - 00:26:42

tritao concluded the discussion on Steam.  The final agenda item, led by Jackson, involved a discussion on an expert code review tool. oursland presented information on the tool, Refactor Raptor, noting that it was from a company they previously worked with.  The company, having pivoted from embedded systems and satellite television, now focuses on code development tools.  oursland clarified they had no prior knowledge of this specific project, having left the company before its inception.  Refactor Raptor is offering a one-year agreement with a three-month free trial, followed by a $500 monthly fee and 40 hours of integration support.  The lack of regular documentation reviews and updates was also noted, with a suggestion to address this in the upcoming Monday meeting.

### Automated Code Review Tool Trial

00:26:44 - 00:28:46

oursland proposes a three-month trial of an automated code review tool.  In exchange for providing blog posts and case studies demonstrating the tool's benefits, the team will receive a significant discount. The tool's developers need to demonstrate commercial viability for a grant, and this trial provides a valuable case study for them.  The trial addresses the common problem of insufficient time and expertise for thorough code reviews.  oursland highlights the tool's potential to improve code quality by catching edge cases that human reviewers might miss.  The speaker also notes that the developers' need to showcase commercial viability is a key factor in securing the discounted trial.  The proposal includes providing blog posts and case studies to the funding agency (FPA) as part of the proposal.  The speaker concludes by seeking feedback and input from the team.

### Automated Code Review System Discussion

00:28:47 - 00:31:11

oursland described an automated code review system, mentioning a previous demo where the system identified and helped correct a memory leak error.  They offered to schedule a live demo to showcase the system's benefits and answer questions. tritao expressed some uncertainty about the system's usefulness but acknowledged the potential benefits.  However, they raised concerns about the $500 monthly cost and the possibility that the FPA might prefer to allocate those funds to personnel instead of a tool.  tritao also noted that prioritizing funding is necessary, but ultimately expressed openness to a trial period of three months to assess the system's value and determine if it justifies the cost.

### System Performance Evaluation and AI Integration

00:31:15 - 00:33:30

The discussion centers on evaluating the performance of a new system against the cost of employing a human reviewer (at 500 euros/month) for PRs.  oursland emphasizes the system's public reviewability and its integration with existing systems. hyarion suggests comparing the system's performance to the human reviewer scenario, acknowledging the potential for the system to offer solutions without explaining the reasoning, which could be problematic.  Despite this concern, hyarion supports a trial period. tritao suggests three months as a sufficient trial period to identify any false positives. kadet supports the AI solution due to the lack of available human candidates with the necessary knowledge, highlighting the AI's ability to review code effectively.

### Scheduling a Demo and Discussing Jethead's Progress

00:33:32 - 00:35:32

kadet expresses concerns about the code quality and potential for false positives/negatives in reviews due to time constraints and limited contributor availability.  They propose a live demo to assess the system's functionality.  kadet suggests a blog post in exchange for three months of testing. tritao agrees that a demo is a good idea, noting sufficient interested attendees. oursland plans to email Jethead to schedule a demo during the upcoming Consumer Electronic Show (CES), where both they and Jethead will be present.  oursland also mentions attending an open-source meeting at CES focused on climate change.  They note Jethead's March 5th grant proposal deadline and the need for marketing collateral showcasing commercial viability before then.  oursland intends to contact Jethead to arrange the demo.

### CI System Integration and Tooling Discussion

00:35:32 - 00:37:28

oursland offered to integrate tooling into the CI system.  Discussion then turned to integrating tools like Google Breakpad or Chromium Crashpad, adjusting exception handling, adding profiling to the CI system and regular builds, and implementing automated performance metrics (a discussion already in progress). hyarion inquired about the possibility of re-symbolizing macOS builds, specifically weekly builds, to obtain better backtraces from crash reports. oursland clarified that official release and weekly builds have symbolized binaries, suggesting investigating methods to recover symbol information if needed.

### Crash Reporting and User Feedback

00:37:29 - 00:39:32

hyarion questions the support for crash reporting. oursland explains that Google Breakpad and Chromium Crashpad provide tooling for crash reporting, including a user prompt to send reports to a server for analysis. However, oursland notes this is a heavyweight system requiring user opt-in and server hosting. tritao adds that the user experience is often frustrating, as users may not receive feedback after sending reports, similar to experiences with other applications like Firefox.  tritao expresses uncertainty about the usefulness of such a system. kadet then clarifies that while user consent is necessary, they use Sentry, a tool that automates reports, even without distributing symbols or source maps.

### Improving Crash Reporting and Debugging

00:39:33 - 00:41:52

kadet discusses the current method of handling crashes, where source maps uploaded to the server allow for resolution of stack traces from obfuscated code using tools like Crashbreak.  The symbols library on the server resolves stack traces.  However, this isn't user-friendly.  kadet proposes a database of crashes to help pinpoint issues, suggesting assigning UIDs to crashes for linking to GitHub issues.  This would improve the current process where they must manually request stack traces from users, a process hindered by the unreproducibility of some crashes. hyarion agrees, drawing from experience with similar tools in game development for mobile phones.  They highlight the usefulness of knowing the precise crash location, contrasting it with the current method of guessing based on user reports.  hyarion acknowledges the balance between user data collection and privacy concerns regarding telemetry.

### Improving Crash Report Transparency

00:41:56 - 00:42:38

The team discussed improving the transparency of crash reports.  hyarion suggested that the gift be transparent, while yorik proposed focusing on clear communication to the user about what will be done with the reported information, emphasizing that this doesn't guarantee immediate bug fixes.  hyarion praised Apple's crash reporting as a good example of comprehensive information display.  The discussion concluded with yorik asking if any further action was needed on this topic.

### Exploring Alternative Crash Reporting Solutions

00:42:44 - 00:43:37

oursland mentioned other options like Sentry, which hadn't been researched yet.  They proposed opening a discussion to gather ideas. kadet noted that Sentry is more geared towards web applications and might not be ideal for their software, but offered to investigate its functionality within their own instance.  oursland expressed gratitude for this offer.

### Meeting Wrap-up and Additional Discussion: 3MF Format Support

00:43:40 - 00:44:53

yorik confirmed that all agenda items were addressed and asked if there were any other topics for discussion.  jbaehr then brought up the topic of registering their software's 3MF format support (import and/or export) on a list of supporting software to increase visibility and marketing.  They suggested that someone from the APA should handle the application process.  yorik agreed with this suggestion.

### FreeCAD Export and Import Process

00:44:53 - 00:44:58

yorik checked on the FreeCAD export and import process and will submit FreeCAD to the relevant location.
            
