# Meeting Minutes

1. Meeting Information:
   - Date: 07 December 2025
   - Time: 1630 hours UTC
   - Location: Jit.si

---

## Remind attendees of recording and transcription.
* ScreenApp.io is taking minutes and recording this meeting.
* Chris Hennes edits the minutes after the meeting.
* Attendees are encouraged to submit pull requests to fix incorrect minutes.

---

## Discuss adopted add-on policies.
* Discussion on how to handle adopting add-ons that are abandoned.
* Concern about the appearange of the FPA "hijacking" someone else's work.
*   Should adopted add-ons be renamed?
*   Should the add-on's repository be renamed?
*   Should the maintainer be changed?
*   Author credit should never be removed.
*   The new maintainer is just the current person maintaining it.
*   The author list is just added to.
* Repo name doesn't matter.
* Add-on name displayed is not too much of a problem.
* Internal name should be kept intact.
*   Public process needed for qualifying add-ons as abandoned.
    *   Contacting the author first.
    *   Official communication.
    *   Transparent process.
* John has been contacting authors individually.
* Not every author can be contacted.
* Contacting authors to ask if they intend to continue developing the add-on.
* All add-ons adopted so far have been abandoned.
* If the original author returns, they can regain access to the fork.
* If an add-on is abandoned, it would be good news if someone could take it over.
* What does it mean to take it over?
    * Are we going to continue development?
    * Are we just going to fix existing bugs?
    * Update the package.xml?
* What's the motivation behind continuing development?
* Should we not just drop some of these?
* In some cases, add-ons are dropped because they don't work anymore.
* The basics are updated for adopted add-ons.
    * package.xml
    * Licensing
    * Repository health
* Not really looking at the internal code.
* Up to anyone who wants to take over maintainership.
* Giving it a new coat of paint and maintaining it if anyone has any issues.
* A lot of abandoned add-ons are abandoned for a reason.
* Getting new developers started on an add-on can provide insights into the core code.
* It's also like FreeCAD isn't necessarily going to maintain them, but we are trying to find people that just want to maintain them.
* Need some kind of protocol to ensure that the process is the same for everyone.
* The process is not public and not a written one that says, okay, first step, we ensure that we did that.
* Getting up to the topic because what we actually want to discuss is what we change of those three things when we adopt stuff.
* He can document the few steps that he takes, but he doesn't send a copy-paste message.
* Adaptation is archival of something else because of the risk of being lost.
* Repo name is quite important for users to understand that the add-on hasn't, that it's still the same thing.
* Most users use the Adam Manager and don't manually install them anymore.
* Trademark things need to be considered.
* Maybe the name change is required at some point because we cannot take the name if there is a registered trademark.
* The package XML data can be changed at any time.
* Trying to clean up things and finding better names for stuff when we can.
* The main point is not wanting anyone out there to have the impression that the FPA is hijacking their work.
* John needs to write down what he is doing.
* Can rediscuss later in the dev handbook.

---

## FEP-0010, Variant Parts.
* Peter promised to bring it up each developer meeting until it was accepted.
* It has moved to the acceptance stage.
* Reflect on the process of the Enhancement Proposal process
* Start the implementation now.
* Frank has a question about it being in the developer branch and being able to turn it on and off.
* There are three stages to this.
    * You can turn it on and off with a runtime flag.
    * Propose to be able to turn it on and off with a compile time flag.
    * Just make it the default.
* Question on the process of submitting FEPs.
* Needs to force ourselves to see and comment on basically every FEP that is submitted.
* Maybe simply seeing some people and moving into the discussion phase would maybe help a bit with forcing the discussion because right now it's draft.
* The draft status is something that makes people not comment on something that is possibly not ready yet.
* Dave: Put things out for comment and all I hear is crickets.
* Things get merged, at which point everyone jumps up to him down and screams and says, why didn't you consult anyone?
* Any suggestions on how to manage that that would be great because that's something probably that we do not need to have written anywhere.
* All the consensus you really need is that, yes, this is worthy of an MVP.
* Progress it to the next discussion stage and again put a time limit on it.
* An announcement proposal is also a little bit about someone pulling the car, basically.
* The open question is what do I have to do to progress it from the draft into the proposed?
* Casper, do you want to address that before Brad keeps?
* It would be good to put that information on the forum.
* My understanding with the FEP process, we intended these things for there to be only a small number of these things active at any one time.
* How do you progress this thing?
* If you receive no comments, that usually means that people don't have anything bad to say about it and they are not disagreeing, hence they are agreeing.
* If for some time nothing happens, we consider it as approved and we should move forward.
*I had a very good comment from Jonas, and this happened only after that I really proposed it.
*Dave, do we have a path forward on yours now?
*I will present it at an upcoming developer meeting.
*Do you want to wrap up this discussion and then we can move on?
*When we move things into motion it's also good to put an announcement on the forum so a wider audience knows about that.
*The process is designed to be owned by the community.
*You need to pick anyone who has the rights to the repository, so basically maintainers.

---

## Thoughts on long feature freeze.
* Roy_043's comments and thoughts on the long feature freeze.
* With the number of regressions after basically maybe three quarters of a year of work, and there are so many regressions that this basically prevents us to have a faster release.
* It would have been better to have a little bit more tests.
* The refine feature is sometimes giving us trouble.
* The fuzzy value of booleans is also troublesome.
* I would like to see basically more tests and also as a form of specification.
* Want to hear your reactions on that.
* Strongly suspect that no one here disagrees that it would be better to have better tests and better test coverage.
* An idea for how we could improve the state of affairs is that you, Peter, who like to have tests and who feel strongly about this, can review PRs and make a comment on them that says, hey, this thing should be tested.
* In terms of tests.
* We're going to have to teach people how to do this and why it's in their best interest to do it.
* The unit tests don't work on Windows.
* I don't know what's the situation on Windows really with the tests.
* A few tests seem to depend on User preferences.
* It's simply much harder to write useful tests than to write the feature itself.
* The proposal now is better than what I proposed initially.
* Could we also make tests a requirement for future announced proposals that touch your code?
* It is easy to do.
* Asks what others think about the length of feature freeze.
* Adrian can't be the only one who writes documentation.

---

## OCCT Liaison
* What is the role and status.
* Kacper states absolutely need to keep the workarounds and we absolutely need to prevent crashes as much as possible because we cannot afford our users to lose data.
* It would be good to have some established way to use our own OCC views.
* What is the general idea?
* Prevent crashes in general.
* The liaison submits it to OCCT.
* Should put work in Trying to prevent those crashes.
* It's quite harsh.
* The fixes take a lot of community resources.
* Try to include tests for the stuff that I created into Corazis.
* If crash is preventable, you should try to do that.
* Adrian thinks of open cascading platform.

---

## System for automatically closing issues.
* The system of automatically closing big issues can be a problem now.
* Make it a no-close issue.
* People spend time writing and disclosing potential issues.
* There is a problem with the bug tracker.
* Extend the window.
* Relaxing that time window would be enough.
* If we simply for now prolong that period and that probably shouldn't be quite enough.
* Has there been any analysis or study of why issues are staying stale or not getting addressed?
* Bugs with the OCCT label should never be auto closed.
