# FreeCAD Developer Meeting Minutes

**Sunday, 6 October 2024**

1. **Volunteer to take minutes**
    > Attending: yorik, sliptonic, JacksonOursland, hyarion, Kacper Donat, Max, new joker, Vincenzo Calligaro, CorvusCorax, rerefusion,
     pierreporte, pieter, ajinkya, wf, alexandre, ZbynekWinkler
    - see [meeting agenda](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-developer-meetings/blob/main/Agendas/agenda-2024-10-06.md) for lists & links


2. **1.0 release status**

   - Blockers: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3ABlocker
   - All hands on deck!
   > see Measurement discussion


3. **Sad news about bgbsww** (yorik)
   > we received news of the passing of Brad McLean (bgbsww) earlier this week
        > dedicate next release to brad in recognition of his contributions


4. **Computional Fluid Dynamics** (sliptonic)

   Reports that getting Openfoam and CFD workbench working on FreeCAD (Mac) is too difficult.  We have requests from educators wanting to do this.  What can be done to make this easier?
    > hyarion: need to compile fc yourself on mac or use docker. Effort is not comparable with other apps.
    > jackson: is there an issue?  we might be able to precompile to conda forge or ????(missed this)


5. **FYI: BIM development Project management** (marcuspollio, cannot attend due to time zone, sorry)

   A new [`BIM development` GitHub Project board](https://github.com/orgs/FreeCAD/projects/31) has been set up, similar to the `Mechanical Advisory Group`. Its aim to act as an development/roadmap interface and facilitate cooperation among the community, contributors, teams members (`CAD Advisory Group`, `Design Working Group`) for the advancement of FreeCAD in this field (built environment). People interested in joining can [contact us](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/16566) to be added as collaborator (you must be part of the FreeCAD org first).
    > similar to CAD advisory group?  Maybe only one group? or just some common membership
    > want a source of decisions on standards compliance and common work flows


6. **DISCUSS: Repository housekeeping** (marcuspollio, idem)

   Currently, the `FreeCAD` Organisation has 51 `Public` repositories on GitHub. Some of them have not been updated since many years and could be `Archived`. Keeping around so many public repositories is a bit puzzling, can misguide or be subject to *necrobumping*. Doing a *little housekeeping* is also an opportunity to look back and consider which efforts were *successful* and which were less so. Here is a proposal for:
    > see adenda for lists
    > yvh: we don't want to delete history, but github archiving is not deletion. 
    > yorik to create an issue for repo cleanup and investigate usage of questionable repos
    > flatpack repo is only used by adrian?
    > check docsaurus repo status with author


7. **DISCUSS: Measure issues** (hyarion)

   There's been a bug Whac-A-Mole in Measure lately. How do we ensure Messure is stable enough for 1.0?
    > Pieter: there are a lot of crash reports in github
    > yvh: we can't expect to fix all the crashes for v1.0.  We have to decide on what is good enough.
    > need review of outstanding crash reports to tag the easier fixes as v1.0
    > Ajinkya: annecdotal reports of people trying FC, but abandoned it due to crashes
    > mac is always a problem since not many developers use mac
    > kd: also has heard reports of crashes and abandonment
    > 58 issues with label "crash". how many are reproduceable and current?  some are obsolete
    > 24 PRs for tomorrow's M3. Can we extend to review crashes?  We can do some of this off line.
    > Should all crahses be considered for correction before release
    > Concern over perception of a v1.0 release with many crashes.
    > NewJoker: checklist for evaluating crashes (see chat transcript)
    > new measure is better than predecessor even with crashes.  if crashes are breaking models they should be fixed.
    > we only know if it has problems from user reports.  Need to put it in users' hands to get reports.
    > QuickMeasure has many bug(?).  QM is triggered by keypresses in many workbenches.  Maybe block QM if the user
      is currently using another tool?  Issue for seg faults in QM has been closed.
    > reducing traffic to QM / opt-in vs opt-out ("else return true") seems to be a reasonable approach.
    > don't be afraid to reopen closed issues
   

8. **DISCUSS: Translation workflow** (hyarion)

   Many crowdin suggestions (in various languages) have never been marked as accepted, so these changes never gets included. Can we improve the process? Do we need maintainers for translations?
    > we have "proofreaders" for many languages, but not all.  these are effectively "maintainers".
    > there are some stale suggestions for translations that have never been approved/rejected.
    > intersection of linguists and knowledgeable FC users is a small set.
    > might be a way to get statistic from Crowdin


9. **DISCUSS: Exception handling on macOS** (hyarion)

   FreeCAD crashes on macOS when event handlers fail to catch all exceptions. [Here's the issue](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/16905). Whatâ€™s the best approach to address this?
    > see Measure discussion above
    > has been reported as a Qt bug, but will not be fixed.
    > need many more try/catch blocks
    > change "connect" to "safe connect"(??)
    > see #16905
    > not just a Mac issue?  should have a common approach on where to insert what trapping code.
    > yorik to ping werner re this topic


10. **FYI: CAD Advisory Group topics** (pierreporte)

   - Presentation of a [â€œtop 10â€ for the issues labelled P1](https://github.com/orgs/FreeCAD/projects/28/views/6) (announced on 2024-09-14).
    > how do we address implementing the items on the CAG list?
    > the items are not described in detail and may not be ready for a developer to start work
    > can we develop the list items into "projects" that the FPA could fund?
    > maybe a bounty on items?
    > discussion of ui mockups as guidance for developers.  some items don't really need a ui (cosmetic
      threads was the example)
    > add a item to FPA Admin agenda on how to assign $$$ to tasks/groups of tasks from CAG list

   - Status of the file structure discussion: [see report](https://gist.github.com/pierreporte/6dd9b23d8296844516834d7afff05ce0).
    > draft solution contained in report
    > keep this item on the agenda for addition discussion
    > could use some input from BIM re file requirements
        
    
11. **DISCUSS: SpaceMouse integration**  (chennes, cannot attend)

   - 3Dconnexion wrote an integration for the Windows version that uses their driver, moves all settings there, and works like other CAD packages with spacemouse support
   - That is a compile-time option, which when enabled removes support for older spacemouse hardware
   - 3Dconnexion has no plans to make this a runtime option (see https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/17000)
   - We could release 1.0 as two versions, once with old option enabled (but this is work)
   - Going forward, if we want to support both at the same time, with a UI switch, we will have to implement that ourselves
       > how many people use older versions of 3Dconnection
    > maybe provide new version for Win, but use the old version for linux?


12. Any Other Business
    > VC will try to take on tnp issues as time allows

Meeting adjourns at 1254 EDT


** 
Chat transcript
CorvusCorax
CorvusCorax says:hi everyone ðŸ˜‰ 
11:29
Yorik van Havre
Yorik van Havre says:
https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-developer-meetings/blob/main/Agendas/agenda-2024-10-06.md
 
11:37
NF
NewJoker (FEA-eng)
NewJoker (FEA-eng) says:This recent crash looks serious: 
https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/17027
 
11:38
avatar
Ajinkya Dahale
Ajinkya Dahale says:Just rewrite FC in Rust ðŸ˜„ 
11:45
JO
Jackson Oursland
Jackson Oursland says:Reproduceable? Confirmed? 
11:49
NF
NewJoker (FEA-eng)
NewJoker (FEA-eng) says:Potential priority checklist for crashes?
1. Can be easily reproduced (in a few steps)
2. Is likely to happen in practice (e.g. doesn't require activating very uncommon feature like the one about the DAG view)
3. Didn't happen in 0.21.2 (regression)
4. Looks fixable in a reasonable time for 1.0.
5. Occurs even on Windows where stuff rarely crashes. 
11:49
avatar
Ajinkya Dahale
Ajinkya Dahale says:I just tried 17027 and my build doesn't even run draft for some reason ðŸ˜• 
11:51
NF
NewJoker (FEA-eng)
NewJoker (FEA-eng) says:Related forum topic: 
https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=86453
 
11:57
Pieter
Pieter says:I have to go in 5 minutes unfortunately... 
11:57
NF
NewJoker (FEA-eng)
NewJoker (FEA-eng) says:
https://github.com/jaheyns/CfdOF
 
11:58
Pieter
Pieter says:I have to go, thanks, bye! 
12:01
C
CorvusCorax
CorvusCorax says:archive them? 
12:04
R
reqrefusion
reqrefusion says:Last modified rule can be more simple such as archiving the ones before 2023. 
12:08
reqrefusion says:Isn't it a little late to talk about this? 
12:12
M
Max
Max says:
https://github.com/orgs/FreeCAD/projects/28/views/6
 
12:30
P
pierreporte
pierreporte says:
https://github.com/orgs/FreeCAD/projects/28/views/6
 
12:30
Yorik van Havre
Yorik van Havre says:I need to go in 5min, sorry 
12:36
C
CorvusCorax
CorvusCorax says:@Max QuickMeasrurement mostly 
12:39
Yorik van Havre
Yorik van Havre says:Need to go ðŸ˜• See ya! 
12:40
NF
NewJoker (FEA-eng)
NewJoker (FEA-eng) says:First attempt already made: 
https://github.com/martinproks/cosmeticthread3d
 
12:40
M
Max
Max says:
https://gist.github.com/pierreporte/6dd9b23d8296844516834d7afff05ce0
 
12:43
P
pierreporte
pierreporte says:
https://gist.github.com/pierreporte/6dd9b23d8296844516834d7afff05ce0
 
12:44

hyarion (Benjamin Nauck)
hyarion (Benjamin Nauck) says:(they have made a mac version as well ðŸ˜ƒ ) 


