# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 18 January 2025**

1. **screenapp.io is not taking minutes**
   - No one is available to start the system, so minutes are being taken manually today. Please submit corrections/additions as needed.

2. **FPA Development Fund Grant Process** (chennes)
   - New process for 2025, moving to quarterly instead of rolling
   - This helps to keep us on-budget
   - FPA approve approx. 65000 EUR in 2024, expects to increase in 2025 (but no budget voted yet)
   - Need Grant Committee members, volunteer now, open to anyone interested in helping

3. **Rules for closing stale issues** (NewJoker/FEA-eng)
   - new rules may result in many still relevant bug reports and feature requests being closed due to inactivity of their participants
   - [already closed stale issues](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aclosed%20label%3A%22Status%3A%20Auto-closing%22%20)
   - alternative solutions? maybe instead of automatically closing issues the algorithm could send them to maintainers to make the decision
   - consensus at the meeting was that the current system is basically working as intended, focusing developer effort where someone actually cares enough to keep an issue alive.
  
4. **Proposal for subforum description changes** (NewJoker/FEA-eng)
   - [suggested changes](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=92660)
   - does everyone agree with them? TODO: those with access should review
   - [recent proof they are needed](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=93899#p804111)
  
5. **The need for rules for new GUI translators** (NewJoker/FEA-eng)
   - it's quite common that a newcomer starts translating strings in Crowdin without caring about the rules or contacting the team of translators working with a certain language
   - maybe there should be some short verification like for new wiki users
   - TODO: chennes will investigate what tools CrowdIn provides for approving/vetting/onboarding new translators

6. **New file format** (CWG / pierreporte)
   * Github discussion created a month ago: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/discussions/18532
   * Interesting points made
   * Werner Mayer hasn’t shown up yet, but that is not a sign of approval or disapproval -- if he felts strongly one way or the other he'd participate.
   * Presentation of the new formalism
   * Closely related: formatting of tree view entries (showing attributes, instance numbers, etc.)

7.  **Cosmetic threads** (CWG / pierreporte)
    * Feature specification: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/5567#issuecomment-2543142577
    * UI/UX done for standalone feature and hole tool
    * New PR for hole tool, to be altered when cosmetic threads are implemented: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/19052
    * Work can start right now in collaboration with CWG
    * Because it’s a feature for TechDraw, it could qualify to the new goal of more compliance to standards

8. **FreeCAD evaluation with a redesign** (pierreporte)
	* As promised, made an existing design in FC during holidays
	* Most frustrating issues: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/11914, https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/18985
  * Undo stack is linear, and global: these are two separate architecture problems
  * Consensus is that a change to a per-tab and tree-based undo architecture would be beneficial, but no developer is yet available to work on the project.

9. **PR Review Prioritization** (oursland)
   * I propose reviewing the PRs marked **approved** first under the assumption that these PRs require less time prior to merge.
   * Max added two new labels to indicate that PRs have been approved (since the GitHub interface only considers approving reviews from maintainers, which is not what we want).
   * chennes emphasised that developers and reviewers can reach out to him on Discord, Telegram, or the Forum to point out that a PR has been reviewed so he will consider it mid-week.
   * While ideally all PRs would get reviewed outside the Monday review meetings, we currently lack the resources to require/implement that.

10. **Refactor Raptor Demo Date** (oursland)
   * What would be a good date and time to propose a live demo of the Refactor Raptor PR assistant?
   * TODO: oursland to set up a Doodle poll (or similar) to set a time

11. **Migrations and breaking changes to files** (kadet)
   * Issue: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/18765
   * We need some way to handle making changes to existing files, both breaking and non-breaking
   * Breaking changes should be avoided, but it is not always possible - maybe some kind of export in compatibility mode
   * Consensus that having a migration level defined in the file is the way to go
   * All migrations post-1.0 would use the new system, including those implement in 1.1dev, but we would leave older migrations alone.
