# FreeCAD Developer Meeting Minutes

**Saturday, 16 November 2024**

1. **Including external Workbenches in the package somehow**(reqrefusion)
   - Some external workbenches provide features that cannot be considered separate from such a program, but incorporating them requires a process. There are also [some reservations](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?p=790032#p789810) about including it in the main code.
   - My solution is to select some external workbenches such as theme selection at the first startup and download them automatically.
   - Someone needs to maintain a list of good candidates
   - https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/12638
   
2. **Merging PRs post 1.0**(reqrefusion)
   - Now the 1.0 process is about to be completed, but there is a lot of PR postponed until after 1.0, this was mentioned at the last PR meeting. A solution is needed to get through this process painlessly.
   - My solution, the first one that comes to mind, is to increase the PR meetings to two for a few weeks. In this way, long meetings can be prevented and normal order can be returned afterwards.
   - NB from chennes: we are now meeting twice per week in order to clear the backlog. We meet Mondays and Fridays, because those are the days the weeklies are generated.
   
3. **Maintenance of 0.21 after 1.0?** (yorik)
   - Several people (zolko, syres IIRC) asked to still support 0.21 for a time after 1.0 is released.
   - Concerns about lack of manpower to do that maintenance
   - No objections in principle: if someone submits a PR with a backport, it will get reviewed
   
4. **Your traditional FPA call reminder** (yorik)
   - Just to remind everybody, we would welcome new candidates to be FPA members. We need more workforce there! Show up at Wednesday meetings if you're interested in joining!
   
5. **1.0 Maintenance releases** (chennes)
   - Do we plan on having a 1.0.1 etc.
   - Yes (from Adrian)
   
6. **Release cadence** (chennes)
   - Going forward, how often should we release?
   - Increased release cadence takes some pressure off making sure a feature makes it into the next release
   - Need much-reduced feature-freeze window (but still freeze, so we periodically switch into "bug fixing" mode)
   - Twice yearly seems like a reasonable target
   
7. **PR Review Meeting Process** (chennes)
   - Not a free-for all :) -- back to sorting by last-updated date
   - Goal is to touch every PR so no one goes more than a week with some interaction
   - Slowing down actual merges, more careful code reviews
   - Max will evaluate high-priority 1.0.x backport PRs for early evaluation
   
8. **Building the Maintainer Team** (chennes)
   - We need more maintainers
   - Generalists and workbench-specific people
   - See responsibilities here: https://github.com/FreeCAD/DevelopersHandbook/blob/main/maintainersguide/index.md
   - If interested, start reviewing PRs, encouraging new devs, and attending review meetings
   - No formalized process for becoming a Maintainer, it is somewhat ad hoc
   - Maintainers need good git and GitHub skills above all else 
