# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 16 November 2024**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes** (chennes)
   - An FPA admin needs to log into the FPA gMail account and then to the screenapp.io account to record
2. **Including external Workbenches in the package somehow**(reqrefusion)
   - Some external workbenches provide features that cannot be considered separate from such a program, but incorporating them requires a process. There are also [some reservations](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?p=790032#p789810) about including it in the main code.
   - My solution is to select some external workbenches such as theme selection at the first startup and download them automatically.
3. **Merging PRs post 1.0**(reqrefusion)
   - Now the 1.0 process is about to be completed, but there is a lot of PR postponed until after 1.0, this was mentioned at the last PR meeting. A solution is needed to get through this process painlessly.
   - My solution, the first one that comes to mind, is to increase the PR meetings to two for a few weeks. In this way, long meetings can be prevented and normal order can be returned afterwards.
   - NB from chennes: we are now meeting twice per week in order to clear the backlog. We meet Mondays and Fridays, because those are the days the weeklies are generated.
4. **Maintenance of 0.21 after 1.0?** (yorik)
   - Several people (zolko, syres IIRC) asked to still support 0.21 for a time after 1.0 is released. Discuss?
5. **Your traditional FPA call reminder** (yorik)
   - Just to remind everybody, we would welcome new candidates to be FPA members. We need more workforce there! Show up at Wednesday meetings if you're interested in joining!
6. **1.0 Maintenance releases** (chennes)
   - Do we plan on having a 1.0.1 etc.?
7. **Release cadence** (chennes)
   - Going forward, how often should we release?
8. **PR Review Meeting Process** (chennes)
   - Not a free-for all :) -- back to sorting by last-updated date
   - Goal is to touch every PR so no one goes more than a week with some interaction
   - Slowing down actual merges, more careful code reviews
   - Max will evaluate high-priority 1.0.x backport PRs for early evaluation
9. **Building the Maintainer Team** (chennes)
   - We need more maintainers
   - Generalists and workbench-specific people
   - See responsibilities here: https://github.com/FreeCAD/DevelopersHandbook/blob/main/maintainersguide/index.md
   - If interested, start reviewing PRs, encouraging new devs, and attending review meetings 
