# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 5 April 2026 15:30h UTC**

Meeting link: https://meet.jit.si/FreeCAD-devs-meeting

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

2. Policy on external build utilities in the main repo (Lgtx)
   - In addition to the official build tooling (pixi), the main repository contains other build tools that not used by CI, usually maintained by external contributors, that are prone to break:
	 - [Docker images](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/tree/main/tools/build/Docker): mostly broken
	 - [Packit (fedora)](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/blob/main/.packit.yaml): maintained, but for how long?
	 - [Nix](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/23506): in-progress
   - On the other hand, [flatpak](https://github.com/flathub/org.freecad.FreeCAD) and [snap](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-snap), [homebrew](https://github.com/FreeCAD/homebrew-freecad) are maintained in external repos
   - What is the opinion of maintainers and devs on that? Should we:
	 - Refuse contributions for external build systems in the main repo?
     - Delete existing ones?
	 - Create other repos in the org?
	 - Ask people to maintain their own external external repo?
	 
3. GSOC participants introduce themselves and present their projects(reqrefusion)
	- Caio Venâncio will present briefly his Part Design Thread Feature Project.
	- More participants may also present their projects.
	
4. Discussion of visibility / promotion of website migration project.(senft-research)
    - The website migration project could benefit from promotion via efforts such as discord announcements.
    - The migration / its respective repo / discussions were things that some frequent users of the dev channels on discord were not aware of. 
    - Due to several users on the discord, after being made aware of the repo / discussions, have already pointed out points of interest / queries in regard to the project, efforts to make the discussions more visible to more contributors should be considered.

5. Discussion of a full Developer Handbook Refactor(senft-research)
    - The Developer Handbook is outdated, rough around the edges (in this proposer's opinion) and leads to several issues whilst trying to onboard onto the project as a contributor.
    - The refactoring of the Developer Handbook, with a more rigorous process for handling its maintenance, would be an ideal solution to this issue.
    - The refactor should be handled with some sort of review process that involves both experienced contributors / maintainers **and less experienced / new contributors** to avoid the ever elusive "Curse of Knowledge".

6. Developer "Code and Chill" sessions(senft-research)
    - Seen in some FOSS communities is the idea of weekly / fortnightly sessions on a social media platform of choice (Discord, Teamspeak etc) where contributors can hang out in a voice channel as they work on their contributions.
    - They end up being quite wholesome / community building excessive that can also lead to more collaboration / higher morale.
    - Discussion of implementing something similar for FreeCAD would be appreciated. 

7. **[FEP-0011: Generic Collaboration Framework](https://github.com/pieterhijma/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals/blob/generic-collaboration-framework/FEPs/FEP-0011-generic-collaboration-framework/README.md)** (pieterhijma)
   - Updated from version 0.1 to 0.2 based on last discussion, still in Draft
     - Wanted to emphasize that the generic collaboration framework is standalone as well.
   - Currently reviewing a comment from Max about clipping planes
	 - Clipping planes are not part of the BCF standard
	 - Storing clipping planes as objects:
	   - May interfere with versioning of documents

8. Increasing number of LLM-generated patches (Lgtx)
   - Over the last few weeks we have seen a lot of Pull requests generated or assisted by AI, several dozens in March alone.
   - Obvious LLM markers in descriptions, commit messages and diff (most of the time all 3)
   - Movitations: getting into GSoC, green squares in GitHub profile/resume, FPA bounties (?), or genuinely wanting to help
   - Real consequences: more work for reviewers ([Brandolini's law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brandolini%27s_law)), increased technical and cognitive debt, no understanding & ownership of the new code by anyone
   - Looking back on the new additions to the contribution policy:
     - "The contributor should be able to explain design and code decisions, answer reviewers’ questions": reviewers' comments are now fed directly to LLMs
     - "That being said, the use of AI is not recommended under any circumstances or in any manner.": non actionnable
     - "Raw AI output is not accepted under any circumstances.": Many projects such as Godot close LLM contributions before asking questions to avoid wasting time arguing.
