# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Sunday, 03 August 2025 1530h UTC**

1. **screenapp.io is taking minutes**
   - An FPA admin will begin the recording
   - Will try to make introductions today, both for newcomers and so the AI knows what's going on

3. **FEP-0007: Consistent language across FreeCAD** @kadet1090
   - 2 weeks period for discussion has passed
   - Feedback was addressed, no concerns was raised afterwards
   - Last chance to comment

5. **FEP-0008: Project Group Structure** @kadet1090
   - One of the problems of the FreeCAD community is that it has become insular. Groups have turned their back on the forum 
     and have discussions on different platforms instead. But their actions and decisions then do impact the project and other 
     contributors. This can easily lead to conflicts. We need to re-examine this practice. - @Roy-043
   - Some formal definition of group would be good to have, proposal: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals/pull/23
  
6. **Setting the time for feature freeze** - @kadet1090
   - We need to fix time to make Feature Freeze
   - Suggestion: 2025-09-01 - Feature Freeze, 2025-09-14 - UI Freeze
   - Suggestion: Feature Freeze means feature freeze and affects when PR got merged, not submitted
   - Suggestion: Change of rules - branch out on the first day of feature freeze, that way we can technically still merge features for easier integration
   - Suggestion: On merge meetings focus on PR fixing stuff, leave features to the end of the meeting

6. **Weekly Builds** - @oursland
   - The weekly builds on the FreeCAD/FreeCAD repo are now parity with FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Bundle
   - Shall we archive the FreeCAD-Bundle repo and update documentation to the new weekly builds?

7. **Update from FAB25** - @pieterhijma
   - Interesting potential projects:
	 - https://www.openfootwear.com/
		 - interested in using CAD software
		 - anyone interested in devloping a FreeCAD addon for this project?
	 - Discussion with people from FabLab Tetem: https://tetem.nl/
		 - They teach children CAD, use tinkerCAD, would like to use simplified FreeCAD
		 - anyone interested in a project like this, for example from DWG?

8. **Pixi as recommended dependency and build system** - @hyarion
   - We have a lot of ways to build FreeCAD, which is great! But all these options makes it difficult for new people to join the project.
   - Deciding on one would greatly simplify writing good documentation, all other options can still be mentioned as they are still important for some people.
   - Pixi has become de facto standard during the last year for CI, dev builds and soon to build releases.
   - As [worser wrote on the forum](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=95279):
     > As a Mac user, and having struggled for f*ing years with brew=based build nightmare, I am very pleased to report that implementing pixi has completely removed all that stress. Magic!
   - Recommendation: Decide to primarily recommend people to use Pixi in documentation, but present that other options exists too
